From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Foot (human)
:''Foot is also the name of a unit of measurement. See foot (unit). File:Стопа.png File:Стопа 1.jpg File:Blausen 0411 FootAnatomy.png File:Human male foot.jpg A '''foot''' (one ''foot'', two or more '''feet''') is a body part on the end of a leg. It is used when walking. It is also important for balance: it helps people stand straight. People also use it to kick, in both fighting and sports, football being an example. People's hands and feet have the same shape: they both have five ''digits'' (the fingers and toes). Many other Vertebrate also have five digits. The part of the foot which joins it to the leg is called the ''heel''. The bottom of the foot is called the ''sole''. Most land vertebrates have feet, and there are many different sorts of foot. The feet of monkeys are much like the hands. The hard foot of an ungulate is a hoof. When an animal has soft feet, or feet with soft parts on the underside, it is called a ''paw''. Many invertebrates also have feet. Many use footwear to protect themselves from weather and dirt. There are multiple kinds of footwear, for example ''sandals'', ''shoes'', and ''boots''. When people do not remove footwear, especially in hot places or when they are very active, their feet can smell badly (''foot odour)''. Wearing footwear that is too big or small can be bad for the feet, causing blisters. People who have foot, leg, and back problems can also get help from special shoes. People have different traditions in different parts of the world for when to wear footwear. For example, in many countries, usually do not wear their shoes or boots in a home. In the United States people often wear shoes inside a home. In Japan, people do not wear shoes in homes, and floors are often made of very soft materials. In Japan it is also important to keep the floors clean. In cultures where people always wear shoes, people sometimes think it is bad not to wear them. Not wearing shoes can be good for the feet, especially if they are damaged. Conditions like Athlete's foot affect the feet, causing the feet to feel dry and cracked. Doctors who work with people's feet are ''podiatrists'' or ''chiropodists''. == Bones == Half the bones in a human body are in the foot. There are 26 bones there. They are 14 phalanges (toes), 5 metatarsals (arch of the foot), and 7 tarsals (ankle bones). Category:Basic English 850 words Category:Feet
