From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Tone language
A '''tonal language''' or '''tone language''' is a language in which words can differ by tones (like pitch (music)) in addition to consonants and vowels. Many languages, including Mandarin Chinese, Cantonese language, Vietnamese language, Thai language, Lao language, Hmong language, Meitei language, Punjabi language, Chittagonian Language, Yoruba language, Igbo language, Luganda language, :en:Ewe_language, Lingala_language, Luba-Kasai language, Noakhalian language and Cherokee are tonal. Other languages, including Indo-European languages such as English language and Hindi, are not considered tonal languages but can use intonation in different ways. In some languages, Pitch-accent language is important instead. A word's meaning can then change if a different syllable is pronounced with a higher pitch. Examples include Ancient Greek language, Swedish language, Norwegian language, Serbo-Croatian, Lithuanian language, and some Asian languages like Japanese language. Some tones may sound alike to people who do not speak a tone language. They are the most difficult part of learning a tone language for those people. ==Example== In Mandarin language, the most famous example is "''mā má mǎ mà'' (), " which has four different words, which are pronounced in exactly the same way but with four different tones. If numbers identify the tones, they can be written m''a1 ma2 ma3 ma4'', which means "mom hemp horse scold." Some ways of romanization mark each tone by a different spelling; ''ma1 ma2 ma3 ma4'' in Pinyin would be written ''ma mha maa mah'' in Gwoyeu Romatzyh. Most use numbers or diacritic (''mā má mǎ mà'' in Pinyin). There is a passage called :en:Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den (). It has 92 Chinese character, all of which read the same way in Mandarin ("shi") but with different tones. Mandarin does not have many syllables. The words for "mother," "hemp," "horse," "scold," and a word put at the end of sentences to make it a question are all pronounced "ma:" *"Mother" is "ma" that is high and level. *"Hemp" is "ma" that starts low and ends high. *"Horse" is "ma" that starts fairly high, dips very low, and then goes back up again. *"Scold" is "ma" that starts high and ends low. *To make a question, "ma" is added at the end, but it is kept very soft and short and about the same level. Mandarin has "first tone," "second tone," "third tone," "fourth tone," and "neutral tone." Other Chinese dialects have more tones, with some as many as twelve. ==Tonal markings== Vietnamese language and pinyin use accents as the tone marks for the Latin alphabet. Each accent shows an altered sound for the syllable. Most syllables have only one tone marking, but the letters in the syllable can be altered by other markings. Syllables usually form one word in un-hyphenated compound word words. Pinyin may have style differences because it is made to help Westerners. On the other hand, Vietnamese has a national script that always has the same style. ==References== Category:Tonal languages
