From: caroline.barnes@enron.com
To: kenneth.cessac@enron.com, shelley.corman@enron.com, dave.neubauer@enron.com, 
	rod.hayslett@enron.com, e..anderson@enron.com
Date: Thu, 24 Jan 2002 10:10:02 -0800 (PST)
Subject: RE: Status - NNG PD chart processing
Additional information on the delineators. The delineator upgrades were installed with the exception of one console that had to be sent back for modifications. The vendor understands the urgency and hopes to get it back quickly. A separate issue which is not addressed in this update is the issue of the use of 31 day charts which are not able to be read by the delineators. There was discussion of reverting back to 16 day charts but I do not know where that stands. cvb -----Original Message----- From: Cessac, Kenneth Sent: Thursday, January 24, 2002 11:18 AM To: Corman, Shelley; Neubauer, Dave; Hayslett, Rod; Anderson, Gary E.; Barnes, Caroline Cc: Thompson, Charlie; Hawkins, Don Subject: FW: Status - NNG PD chart processing Please call if you have any questions. Kenneth C. x5-2989 -----Original Message----- From: Cessac, Kenneth Sent: Wednesday, January 23, 2002 1:44 PM To: Hawkins, Don; Thompson, Charlie Subject: Status - NNG PD chart processing Listed below is the status of the different projects that were initiated to improve the processing of NNG PD charts. 1. Upgrade the delineator's to support integration of 31 day charts plus setup a second delineator. - This work was completed on January 18th. 2. Implement calculations within PGAS that will provide a flow-weighted daily breakout of index read PD meters. PGAS was contracted to implement these equations mid December. They are currently 65% complete with the development. Estimate development and testing will be completed mid February and implementation into our system before February business close. 3. Implement express-mail service at the field locations. Currently working to setup an account with the US post office. After this account has been setup, the postal service will need about 4 weeks to print labels. Estimate March as the first month which express mail could be implemented. Kenneth C.
