From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Boot
File:Sailing boots.jpg File:Combat boots IMGP8979.jpg A '''boot''' is a type of footwear that protects the foot and ankle. Boots are higher and larger than shoes and sandals. Some boots are high enough to protect the leg (lower part of the leg) as well. Some boots are held on with ''bootstraps'' or ''bootlaces''. Some also have '''spats''' or ''gaiters'' to keep water out. Most have a very strong ''boot sole'', the bottom part of a boot. == Types of boots == * '''Rain boots''' (or rubber boots) are made from rubber or plastic. Rain boots protect a person's feet from water and rain. People who work on fishing boats and farmers wear rubber boots to keep their feet dry. People who work in chemical industry factories wear rubber boots to protect their feet from dangerous chemicals. * '''Winter boots''' are boots that keep a person's feet warm in cold weather. People in cold countries such as Canada and Sweden wear winter boots during the cold season. Winter boots can be made from many different materials, such as leather, fabric, or plastic. Winter boots are thermal insulation with wool or fur to keep the feet warm. Most winter boots also keep people's feet dry. * '''Work boots''' (or "construction boots") are designed for people who work in construction or factory jobs. Work boots often have a steel toe cover to protect the person's toes. Work boots are usually made of strong leather, to protect the person's foot from sharp objects or dangerous chemicals. Some work boots have a flat piece of steel in the sole to protect the foot from sharp nails. Many countries require construction workers to wear work boots when they are on a construction site. * '''Fashion boots''' are boots that are worn for style than for protection. Usually the term is used for woman boots. These kind of boots come in many heights, where the top ends at the ankle, the knee, or the thigh. The ones that are tall are usually closed by a zipper or can stretch for putting it on easily. This is because using shoe laces would take time for the taller types. == Other websites == Category:Basic English 850 words Category:Boots
