From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Climate
Image:ClimateMap World.png File:Koppen-Geiger Map World present.svg '''Climate''' means the usual condition of the temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, rainfall, and other Meteorology patterns in an area of the Earth's surface for a long time. In simple terms, climate is the average condition for about thirty years. Climate and weather are different: weather is the day to day conditions in the atmosphere. '''The types of climates are''': Tropical climate, Desert climate, Temperate zone, Polar climate, Mediterranean climate. * Polar climate (also called boreal climate), has long, usually very cold winters, and short summers. For example, near the north and south poles. * Temperate climates have four seasons. Some of the countries which have a temperate climate are: most of the European countries. * Desert climate are very dry. They just have one or two seasons such as: Saudi Arabia and many African countries. * Tropical climates have warm temperature and only two seasons; wet and dry. An example of a place with a tropical climate is the Amazon Rainforest in Brazil. * The Mediterranean climate is usually hot and dry in summer, and is cool and wet in winter. An example of a country with a Mediterranean climate is Spain. The latitude, ground, and elevation can change the climate of a location. It is also important to note if oceans or other large bodies of water are nearby. Climates are most commonly classified by temperature and precipitation. The most commonly used classification was the Köppen climate classification, first made by Wladimir Köppen. The Thornthwaite system,C. W. Thornthwaite, "An Approach Toward a Rational Classification of Climate", ''Geographical Review'', 38:55-94, 1948 which was used from 1948, not only uses temperature and precipitation information, but evapotranspiration too. This makes it useful for studying how many different Biodiversity there are, and about the things that could happen when climates change. The Bergeron and Spatial Synoptic Classification systems focus more on where the air masses which help make climates come from. Climate change after a long time. Nowadays global warming in many places, but not in all: 12/2023 "Beijing shivers through coldest December on record" (BBC). North Korea and Japan are also unusually cold, Decenber 2023. == Related pages == * Climatology * Köppen climate classification == References == Category:Climate
