From:
To:
Date:
Subject: James Watt
File:James Watt by Henry Howard.jpg File:Old bess steam engine 1777.jpg & James Watt in 1777. Science Museum, London]] '''James Watt''' (19 January 1736 25 August 1819) was a Scotland mathematician and engineer. He did not invent the first steam engine, but he did modify it to work better. There were other patented steam engines (such as the Savery and Newcomen steam engines) in use by the time Watt started his work on them. His major contribution is in developing the modern form of the steam engine. The Watt steam engine is credited for driving the Industrial Revolution of the 18th and 19th centuries. James Watt was a brilliant engineer and he also transformed the Newcomen engine. The modern unit of power (physics), the watt, is named after him. It replaced the horsepower invented by Watt. == Biography == James Watt was born on 19 January 1736 in Greenock, Renfrewshire. His father was a shipwright, ship owner and contractor, and served as the town's Baillie. His mother, Agnes Muirhead, came from a distinguished family and was well educated. Both were Presbyterians and strong Covenanters. Watt's grandfather, Thomas Watt, taught mathematics and was a baillie to the Baron of Cartsburn. Watt did not go to school every day. At first, he was mostly home school by his mother but later he attended Greenock grammar school. He exhibited great skill with his hands and a natural ability for mathematics, although Latin and Ancient Greek failed to interest him. He also absorbed the Scottish mythology of the Scottish people. == The centrifugal governor == File:Boulton and Watt centrifugal governor-MJ.jpg engine from 1788]] File:centrifugal governor.png One of Watt's many improvements was the invention of a "Centrifugal force governor" to regulate automatically the speed of the engine. This is most obvious on steam engines where it regulates the admission of steam into the cylinder (engine)(s). It is also found on internal combustion engines and variously fueled turbines, and in some modern striking clocks. A centrifugal governor is a homeostatic device which controls the speed of an engine by regulating the amount of "intermediate substance" (steam) which drives the machine. This keeps a near constant speed whatever the load or fuel supply conditions. It uses the principle of proportional control: this means the stopping of (in this case) steam varies according to the speed of the machine. On Watt's fly-ball device, as the machine speeds up, the balls fly round faster. As they fly round faster, they move out from the central post. As they move out from the central post, they close the steam supply more firmly. As they do so, the machine slows down and the balls spin more slowly, and allow more steam into the cylinders. In addition, the system has a safety release valve to allow excess steam to escape without driving the wheels. 500 Boulton & Watt engines were built by the firm between 1775 and 1800.Hills, Richard Leslie 1993. ''Power from steam: a history of the stationary steam engine''. Cambridge University Press. , 9780521458344 Later, this kind of feedback loop became an important tool of cybernetics. == Partnership == Watt went into partnership with a fellow member of the Midlands Lunar Society, Matthew Boulton. The firm of Boulton & Watt designed and built steam engines, and was very important in the industrial revolution. === The Soho Foundry === At first the partnership made the drawing and specifications for the engines, and supervised the work to erect it on the customer's property. They produced almost none of the parts themselves. Watt did most of his work at his home in Harper’s Hill in Birmingham, while Boulton worked at the Soho Manufactory. Gradually the partners began to actually make more and more of the parts, and by 1795 they purchased a property about a mile away from the Soho manufactory, on the banks of the Birmingham Canal. There they built a new foundry for making the engines. The Soho Foundry opened in 1796 at a time when Watt’s sons, Gregory and James Jr. were heavily involved in the management of the enterprise. In 1800, the year of Watt’s retirement, the firm made a total of forty-one engines.Roll, Erich 1930. ''An early experiment in industrial organisation : being a history of the firm of Boulton & Watt. 1775–1805. London: Longmans, Green, p280 Watt retired in 1800, the same year that his fundamental patent and partnership with Boulton expired. The famous partnership was transferred to the men's sons, Matthew Robinson Boulton and James Watt Jr. Longtime firm engineer William Murdoch was soon made a partner and the firm prospered. == Other websites == *[http://inventors.about.com/library/inventors/blsteamengine.htm History of Steam Engines] == References == Category:1736 births Category:1819 deaths Category:British mechanical engineers Category:British inventors Category:Members of the Lunar Society Category:Scottish mathematicians Category:People from Greenock
