From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Liberalism
'''Liberalism''' is a way of thinking about politics and government. It emphasizes the idea of freedom, and believes that the greatest countries are the ones that contain unconfined liberties. Classical liberalism all believe that everyone equally deserves to be free to decide for themselves how to think, act, speak and conduct their lives with a minimum of governance or control by others including control by a formal government. This is similar to modern day libertarian beliefs. However, modern liberals have disagreed about what gives people freedom and what removes freedom. == Beliefs == Liberals can be broadly divided into two groups. Classical liberals believe that the main threat to freedom is the government. They believe that politicians are often keen to increase their own power, and that they can easily become Tyrant. Classical liberals point to examples such as Nazi Germany, Taliban Afghanistan and North Korea as examples of countries led by tyrants or dictators. In these countries, human rights are recklessly disregarded, countless individuals are imprisoned and Slavery until their demise, and there is no way to vote out an official during an election or political event. Classical liberals therefore emphasize the importance of democracy and individual human rights. They believe that countries need clear, strict and equally applied laws that stop the government from infringing on the rights of individuals. Often, these rights are protected by a constitution. In some countries, such as the United States, the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution is protected so that people are always able to physically oppose their government if it becomes a tyranny or dictatorship. Classical liberals often also tend to believe that the government is bound to create few rules regarding the economy. They often believe economic problems are caused by poor decisions created by Corruption operating the government. Furthermore, Classical Liberals believe that individuals must control the right to own and outrageously high taxes can infringe on this human right. In contrast, modern liberals believe that the main threat to freedom comes from poverty. They suggest that poverty removes choices from individuals, and that this prevents them from being able to enjoy being a human. They believe that the Industrial Revolution and economic crises such as the Great Depression significantly reduced freedom. Therefore, they believe that the government must use government control and taxes to provide for poorer individuals or organizations such as schools, hospitals, and even monetary payments while using laws to force people to cooperate. Their goal is to influence society to create equality of outcomes which they believe allows everyone to have an equal chance for pursuit of happiness. This disagrees with the classical liberal view that the government must refrain from not control or tax people too much or be in control of the economy. Classical liberals are often members of Conservatism organizations and so are sometimes considered Right-wing politics. Modern liberals share many similar views with Social democracy and are seen as Left-wing politics. == Philosophy == Before the Age of Enlightenment, Monarchy wielded unrestricted sovereignty over their nations, while peasants or common individuals often expressed little freedom or autonomy over themselves. During the Age of Enlightenment, philosophers such as John Locke, Simón Bolívar, John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham began to write about freedom. Earlier writers, such as Marcus Aurelius, had written about freedom, but this time the idea became more popular. The United States of America was the first country to have a constitution which was based on the ideas of John Locke which were similar to those of Mill and Bentham, and which guaranteed certain rights to all citizens, including freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, the right to assemble (get together in groups), the right to bear arms (weapons), and the right to ask their government to take action (right of petition) or to remove from office rulers they did not like (right of referendum). Another idea that became popular around this time was the idea of free trade. A leading philosopher who promoted free trade was Adam Smith. == Liberalism today == Most of the wealthy countries in the world today are democracies with more or less free trade. Some modern liberal democracies have relatively higher taxes (such as Nordic countries). An exception to this rule are the oil-rich countries, not all of which are liberal or democratic. == Liberalism around the world == All liberal governments support free elections, and this idea is defended in the legal systems of many countries. However, many countries have elections, but they are not free. This is because opposition candidates cannot use the mass media to publicize their ideas. This situation leads to long-term stability, and to rule by elite groups or dictators. That situation exists in Russia and almost all the former states of the Soviet Union to the east.The "stans": Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and many of the constituent states of Russia itself have election systems which return the same candidates for long periods. === United States === The government of the United States was created based on a belief in democracy and personal freedom. However the term "liberalism" has taken on multiple different meaning in modern times. Liberals in the United States still believe in supporting democracy and freedom, but many liberals also support other ideas. While not all liberals agree on everything, most liberals in the United States agree: * That equal opportunity for all people is a good goal * That government should provide some level of education and healthcare to all people, even if some taxes have to be increased to achieve this goal * That richer people should pay more of their income in absolute terms in taxes than poorer individuals (through progressive taxation) * That liberties and freedoms are very important and should be protected * Most liberals in the United States believe that peace is at least somewhat important, and that government should work together with other countries and not start as many wars on their own Liberals in the United States are also sometimes called "Progressives". The biggest liberal political party in the modern United States is the Democratic Party (United States). However, the Green Party is seen to be more 'left', or liberal than the Democrats. === Australia === Liberals in Australia have many different ideas about government than liberals in the United States. Most liberals in Australia believe that government should not increase taxes, and would like a government that has lower taxes and less power over the economy. The main liberal political party in Australia is the Liberal Party of Australia. The Liberal Party also believes that government should support traditional values and morals, something which many Conservatism believe as well. ==Notes== ==Related pages== * Political economy * Neoliberalism * Constitutional economics * Conservatism Category:Liberalism
