From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Caenorhabditis elegans
| display_parents = 5 | subdivision_ranks = Subspecies | subdivision = * ''Caenorhabditis elegans'' var. ''Bergerac, Dordogne''Les modalités de la reproduction et le déterminisme du sexe chez quelques nematodes libres. Victor Nigon Ann. Sci. Nat. Zool. Biol. Anim. 1949;11:1–132. (for instance strain BO) * ''Caenorhabditis elegans'' var. ''Bristol''Tc1 transposition and mutator activity in a Bristol strain of Caenorhabditis elegans. Babity JM, Starr TV and Rose AM, Mol Gen Genet., 1990 June, 222(1), pages 65-70, (for instance strain N2)Structural analysis of Tc1 elements in Caenorhabditis elegans var. Bristol (strain N2). Harris LJ and Rose AM, Plasmid. 1989 Jul;22(1), page 10-21, }} Image:Roundworm.jpg '''''Caenorhabditis elegans''''' is a species of roundworm or nematode. It is important because much research has been done on its genetics and development. ''C. elegans'' is about 1 mm long. The worms are not parasites, they are free-living. They live in soil and feed on bacteria. ''C. elegans'' is a model organism, used to study animal development and behavior. It is the first multicellular organism for which scientists have been able to sequence its whole genome. ''C. elegans'' has two types of sex: hermaphrodite and male. A hermaphrodite makes sperms when its in a larval stage and makes ovum in an adult stage. A male can only make sperm. Males are a little smaller than hermaphrodites. Study using ''C. elegans'' was begun in 1965 by Sydney Brenner. In laboratory, they are easy to keep alive. At 25ºC, they spend 14 hours as an embryo. Animals like ''C. elegans'' that do not take long to grow and are easy to feed are usually good organisms for research. In 2002, the Nobel Prize for Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Sydney Brenner, Robert Horvitz, and John Sulston for their work on how ''C. elegans's'' genes cause it to grow and cause some of its cells to die. ==References== Category:Nematodes Category:Model organisms
