From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Cathedral
File:Catedral_de_Salta_1.jpg, Argentina.]] File:St Andrews Sydney 11 Bishop Broughtons chair.jpg, Australia.]] A '''cathedral''' is a Christian Church (building) that is the seat of a Bishop. As cathedrals are the seat of a bishop, they are central church of a diocese. Only those Christian denominations that have bishops have cathedrals. Cathedrals can be found in the Roman Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox Church, Anglicanism as well as some Lutheranism churches. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the terms "kathedrikos naos" (literally: "cathedral shrine") and "metropolis" (literally "mother city") are both used to describe the same thing. "Metropolis" is more common, but both terms are officially used. There are variations on the use of the term "cathedral"; for example, some Protestant Reformation cathedrals in Scotland now within the Church of Scotland still retain the term cathedral, despite the Church's Presbyterianism polity which does not have bishops. As cathedrals are often particularly impressive buildings, the term is often used incorrectly to refer to any large important church. Some diocese, however, have other churches that are bigger than the cathedral. Several cathedrals in Europe, such as Strasbourg, and in England at York, Lincoln, Lincolnshire and Southwell, are referred to as Minster (cathedral) (German: ''Münster'') churches, from Latin ''monasterium'', because the establishments were served by Canon (church) living in community or may have been an abbey, prior to the Reformation. The other kind of great church in Western Europe is the abbey. == Definition == The word cathedral is derived from the Latin noun "cathedra" (''seat'' or ''chair''), and refers to the presence of the bishop's or archbishop's chair or throne. In the ancient world, the chair was the symbol of a teacher and thus of the bishop's role as teacher, and also of an official presiding as a magistrate and thus of the bishop's role in governing a diocese. The word cathedral, though now grammatically used as a noun, is originally the adjective in the phrase "cathedral church", from the Latin "ecclesia cathedralis". The seat marks the place set aside in the prominent church of the diocese for the head of that diocese and is therefore a major symbol of authority.New Standard Encyclopedia, 1992 by Standard Educational Corporation, Chicago, Illinois; page C-172/3 Many cathedrals are very old. ==Cathedrals which are not the seat of a bishop== Some churches are called ''cathedral'', but they are not the seat of a bishop. This may be because the way the church is organised changed over time. This is the case for Our Lady of Sorrows Church, Poprad, in Slovakia, for example. In Slovak language, this church is called ''cathedral''. It is part of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Spiš. This diocese was re-organised several times. Currently, the cathedral of the diocese is St. Martin's Cathedral (Spišská Kapitula). Churches that formerly were a diocesan seat may be called concathedral, co-cathedral, or pro-cathedral. == References == == Gallery == File:San Giovanni in Laterano Front.JPG|The Archbasilica of St. John Lateran in Rome is the seat of the Pope File:Cathédrale Saint Pièrre et Paul de Douala1.jpg|Cathedral of Saints Peter and Paul, Douala, Cameroon File:Coventry Cathedral Ruins with Rainbow edit.jpg|The remains of Coventry Cathedral, United Kingdom, bombed during the Second World War File:Mezquita de Córdoba desde el aire (Córdoba, España).jpg|The Cathedral of Córdoba, Spain includes Moorish architecture. Image:Cathedral Brasilia Niemeyer.JPG|Metropolitan Cathedral in Brasilia, Brasil Image:Alexander Nevski Cathedral 2006-1.JPG|St. Alexander Nevski Bulgarian Orthodox Cathedral in Sofia, Bulgaria File:Cologne cathedrale vue sud.jpg|Cathedral of Cologne, Germany. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and one of the most famous churches in Germany. Image:Speyerer Dom Altrheinschleife.jpg|Cathedral of Speyer, the biggest romanesque Church in the world that still stands. The abbey of Cluny was bigger but was destroyed. Image:Christ the Savior Cathedral Moscow.jpg|The Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow Category:Cathedrals
