From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Cheddar cheese
File:Brie Cheese and Chedder Cheese and Emmental in plate.jpg File:Somerset-Cheddar.jpg '''Cheddar''' is a type of hard cheese made from cow's milk. It was originally produced in the English village of Cheddar, Somerset. Ancient Rome may have brought the recipe to Britain from the Cantal region of France.Barthélemy, Roland & Sperat-Czar, Arnaud (2003), ''Guide du fromage''. Editions Hachette Pratique, Publishers, pp. 89, The first record of cheddar cheese dates back to the 12th century. In 1170, Henry II of England bought at a farthing (English coin) per pound. Charles I of England (16001649) also bought cheese from Somerset. Cheddar cheese traditionally had to be made within of Wells Cathedral. Cheddar cheese is different from other cheeses in how it is made. After the curds are heated, they are cut and stacked. The stacks are then turned periodically and re-stacked. This process is called cheddaring. Cheddar cheese is sometimes aged in caves for up to 30 months before it is ready to eat. Monday, 21 February 2022 Cheddar cheese is the most popular cheese in the United Kingdom. It accounts for 51 percent of the country's £1.9 billion annual cheese market. It is the second most popular cheese in the United States, behind mozzarella, with an average annual consumption of per person. The United States produced 3,233,380,000 lbs in 2010, and the UK 258,000 tonnes in 2008. The name "cheddar cheese" is widely used and has no protection within the European Union. Only cheddar produced from local milk within four counties of South West England may use the name "West Country Farmhouse Cheddar."Brown, Steve; Blackmon, Kate; and Cousins, Paul. ''Operations management: policy, practice and performance improvement''. Butterworth-Heinemann, 2001, pp. 265–266. Cheddar cheese may be used to make cheese on toast. == Gallery == File:White cheddar cheese.jpg|'''White cheddar''' is a special type of cheddar cheese. File:Cheddar cheese and Wasa crispbread - Massachusetts.jpg|Cheddar cheese and crispbread File:Toast with cheddar cheese and tomato.jpg|Cheese on toast topped with tomato slices File:Cheddar cave cheese.jpg|Cheddar cheese is being matured in a cave. == References == == Other websites == * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xEnifYNnDCA Category:English cheeses
