From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Aztecs
File:StaCeciliaAcatitlan.jpg File:Sun stone detail.JPG, also known as the Aztec Calendar Stone, at the National Museum of Anthropology, Mexico City]] The '''Aztecs''' were Native American people who lived in Mesoamerica. They ruled the Aztec Empire from the 14th century to the 16th century.Berdan, Frances (1982). "The Aztecs of Central Mexico: An Imperial Society." ''Case Studies in Cultural Anthropology.'' New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston. . The name "Aztec" comes from the phrase "people from Aztlan". Legends say that Aztlan was the first place the Aztecs ever lived. "Aztlan" means "place of the herons" in the Nahuatl language.Somervill, Barbara A. (2009). ''Great Empires of the Past: Empire of the Aztecs.'' Infobase Publishing. .p.8 Often the term "Aztec" refers just to the people of Tenochtitlan. This was a city on an island in Lake Texcoco. These people called themselves the Mexica which is why the country is called Mexico, or the Nahua which is why their language is called Nahuatl. This civilization lived in central Mexico between the 14th and 16th centuries. Their capital city was Tenochtitlan, built where Mexico City stands today. The Aztec civilization ended when Spanish forces conquered them in 1521.Hansen, Valerie; & Curtis, Kenneth R. (2015). ''Voyages in World History, Volume I.'' Centgage Learning. p. 326. . == History == Before the Spanish Empire conquered them, the indigenous peoples lived in many separate city-states. These were small city with farmland around them. Each state had its own ruler. Around 1100 AD, these city-states started to fight each other for power and control of the area's resources. Historians think the Aztecs came to central Mesoamerica around 1200.Trumbauer, Lisa (2005). ''The Aztec World.'' Benchmark Education Company. p. 20. . They came from what is now northwest Mexico. According to historian Lisa Marty: .''}} By 1325, the Aztecs had built Tenochtitlan on an island in Lake Texcoco. Tenochtitlan became a city-state that gradually became more and more powerful. By about 1400, three city-states had grown into small empires. In 1428, these two empires fought the Tepanec War for control of the area. The Texcoco empire made an alliance with some other powerful city-states, including Tenochtitlan, and won the war. These ally were supposed to share power equally as they started to gain control of more land. However, by 1430, Tenochtitlan became the most powerful member of the alliance. It became the capital city of the Aztec Empire, and its ruler became the 'high king' of the Empire. File:Tira-1.jpg|Aztec drawing of the Mexica leaving Aztlan File:Region Mesoamerica.png|Map of Mesoamerica File:Centroamerica prehispanica siglo XVI.svg|Map of city-states in the 16th century ==The Aztec Empire== File:Templo Mayor in Mexico-Tenochtitlan 16th century (illustration 1900).jpg The Aztec Empire existed between about 1438 AD and 1521 AD. When the Empire was largest, it spread across most of Mesoamerica and controlled about 11,000,000 people. === Tenochtitlan === Tenochtitlan was the Capital (city) of the Aztec Empire. Tenochtitlan was one of the greatest cities of the world in that time. By the early 16th century, at least 200,000 people lived in the city. This made Tenochtitlan the largest city in the Americas before Christopher Columbus arrived. Mexico City now covers the whole area where Tenochtitlan used to be.Evans, Susan Toby (2005). "The Aztec Palace Under Spanish Rule." In ''The Postclassic to Spanish-Era Transition in Mesoamerica.'' pp. 13-40. Susan Kepecs & Rani T. Alexander (Eds.) . == Religion == The Aztecs believed in polytheism. Two of the most important gods they worshipped were ''Huitzilopochtli'', the god of war and the sun, and ''Tlaloc'', the rain god. Another important god was ''Quetzalcoatl'' (feathered snake), the god of learning and civilization. The Aztecs did many things to keep the gods happy. These things included human sacrifices.Carrasco, David 1999. ''City of Sacrifice: The Aztec Empire and the Role of Violence in Civilization''. Boston, MA: Beacon Press. They believed this helped keep the world from ending. The Aztecs believed that the gods had created them, and that human sacrifice was the most powerful way of giving back the gift of life. The Aztecs also believed that the gods were in an almost never-ending struggle. The hearts and blood from the sacrifice fed the good gods to give them strength to fight the evil gods. The human sacrifices often took place on the Templo Mayor, the Aztecs' great pyramid temple. File:Huitzilopochtli telleriano.jpg|Huitzilopochtli, as depicted in the Codex Telleriano-Remensis Image:Quetzalcoatl telleriano2.jpg|Quetzalcoatl in the Codex Telleriano-Remensis File:Black Tezcatlipoca.jpg|Tezcatlipoca in the Codex Borgia File:Young man offered to Tezcatlipoca Huitzilopochtli Toxcatl. Spanish report by Sahagún.jpg|Spanish drawing of a human sacrifice == Food == The Aztecs ate plants and vegetables that could grow easily in Mesoamerica. The main foods in the Aztec diet were maize, beans, and squash (plant). They often used tomatoes and chili pepper as spices.Ortiz de Montellano, Bernard R. (1990). ''Aztec Medicine, Health and Nutrition.'' New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press. p. 100. . Aztec markets sold fruit, vegetables, spices, flowers, dogs, birds, and cocoa beans. They also created chocolate. However, they did not have sugar, so their chocolate was a strong liquid with Chili pepper in it. They also made an alcoholic drink called chocolatl.Szogyi, Alex (1997). ''Chocolate: Food of the Gods.'' Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 199. . These foods later spread around the world.Dwyer, Helen; & Stout, Mary (2012). ''Aztec History and Culture.'' The Rosen Publishing Group. p. 33. . == Social structure == In Aztec society, there were different social classes with different social statuses. The most important people were the rulers. The Aztecs' first king was Acamapichtli. Their last king was Cuauhtemoc. He surrender (military) control of the Aztec Empire to Hernan Cortes during the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire.Macdonald, Fiona (2009). ''The Aztec and Mayan Worlds.'' The Rosen Publishing Group. p. 60. . Next were nobleman. These were the Empire's powerful members of the government; great warriors; judges; and priests. These people enjoyed a high social status. The next social class was the commoners (common people). These were the Empire's everyday workers. Most of them farmer, ran stores, or traded. Other workers included artisans, regular soldiers, and fisherman. Commoners were allowed to own land as a group or a family. However, a single person was not allowed to own land. The lowest social classes in Aztec society were serfdom and then slaves. Slaves had no rights at all. They were bought and sold at Aztec markets. The Aztecs also human sacrifice some prisoners of war to their gods. However, if they had the money, they could buy their own freedom and become commoners. For most of the Aztec Empire's existence, it was very difficult to move between social classes. Usually, if a person was born in a social class, they would stay in that class for the rest of their life. Aztecs had harsh punishments for crimes that seem simple to us now. For example, a person could get the death penalty for adultery; cutting down a living tree; moving the Border of a field to make their land bigger and someone else's smaller; major theft; treason; disorderly conduct (causing trouble in public), drunkenness; and promiscuity. Under Aztec sumptuary law, a commoner could also get the death penalty for wearing cotton.p.88 File:Aztec high lords bottom.png|Aztec 'high lords', who were in the top social class File:Pochtecas con su carga.JPG|Merchants, members of "the commoners," carry things they want to sell a long way away ==Education== The Aztecs studied astrology and used the movements of the planets and the stars to create different calendars. They had an accurate calendar which consisted of 365 days, based on the movements of the sun. They also had a religious calendar which was made up of 260 days.Jimenez, Randall C.; & Graeber, Richard B. 2001. The Aztec Calendar Handbook. Aztec Calendar Handbook. p. 40. ISBN 978-0966116311. The Aztecs also studied and taught many complex subjects, including geometry, mathematics, debate, law, music, poetry, architecture, and agriculture. ==Sports== The most popular Aztec sport was Tlachtili. They played this game using rubber balls and vertical hoops on opposite walls in the middle of the court. The game's goal was to shoot the ball into the hoop using their knees. The first team to score won the game. ==End of the Aztec Empire== Between 1519 and 1521, the Spain conquistador, Hernán Cortés, Alliance with Tlaxcala and other enemies of the Aztecs. The conquistadors defeated the Aztecs, took their empire, and made it into a Spanish colony. Some Aztecs did not want to fight against the soldiers of Cortés, because they thought they were gods.Lockhart, James; & Schwartz, Stuart (1983). ''Early Latin America: A History of Colonial Spanish America and Brazil.'' New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 80. . == Aztecs today == Today, many Mexican people have Aztec and other Native American Ancestor. People still use Aztec symbols in Mexico. On the Mexican flag, there is a picture of an eagle on a cactus with a snake in its mouth. This was an Aztec symbol. Even the name ''Mexico'' is an Aztec word. ==References== Category:Aztec
