From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Tutankhamun
File:Tutanchamun Maske.jpg File:Egypt.KV62.01.jpg]] '''Tutankhamun''' (Tutankhaten, Tutankhamun) was an Egypt Pharaoh of the 18th dynasty (royal family) during the New Kingdom.Clayton, Peter A. 2006. ''Chronicle of the Pharaohs: the reign-by-reign record of the rulers and dynasties of Ancient Egypt''. Thames & Hudson. ISBN 978-0-500-28628-9 He reigned from when he was nine years old (1334 BC) to when he died (1324 BC). Tutankhamun was the son of Akhenaten and one of Akhenaten's sisters, or perhaps one of his cousins, Kiya. Tutankhamun ruled for 9 years and died very young, at 19, so he is known as The Boy King. He was married to his half-sister Ankhesenamun, daughter of Queen Nefertiti, his stepmother. File:Tuts Tomb Opened.JPG File:Tutankhamun Ankh shaped mirror 2018.jpg In his third year of his reign, Tutankhamun reversed several changes made during his father's reign. He ended the worship of the god Aten and restored the god Amun to supremacy. The ban on the cult of Amun was lifted and traditional privileges were restored to its priesthood. The capital was moved back to Thebes, Egypt and the city of Akhetaten abandoned.Erik Hornung, ''Akhenaten and the religion of light'', Translated by David Lorton, Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 2001, . This is when he changed his name to Tutankhamun, "Living image of Amun", reinforcing the restoration of Amun. In 1922 Howard Carter found Tutankhamun's tomb. Tutankhamen was believed to carry a curse. Actually, the archeologists who visited his tomb died from natural causes. Tutankhamen's tomb's unique and priceless treasures have taught us a lot about the boy king, the pharaohs, and ancient Egypt. == Illness and death == Recent studies of his body using Computed tomography scanner and DNA tests show that he had two children, but they died very young. Scientists now believe he died from a broken leg, made more complicated by bone disease and malaria. Before this discovery there were many theories about his early death, including murder. It is quite certain that he was infected by several strains of malaria, and very likely that he had some birth defect caused by inbreeding. His parents were brother and sister. The final cause of his death is still unclear. == New galleries in Cairo Museum == In 2014 the Egyptian Museum in Cairo opened four new halls in the Tutankhamun Gallery.[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-30493177 BBC News: Egypt unveils renovated Tutankhamun gallery] ==References== Category:2nd-millennium BC pharaohs Category:Deaths from bone disease Category:Deaths from malaria
