From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Civil engineering
'''Civil engineering''' is the term for the work of designing and building infrastructure. It usually means large structures, like bridges, dams, buildings, roads and tunnels. It may also be applied to smaller structures like residential buildings. It also covers complicated networks such as water, irrigation and sewerage networks. Civil engineers can be involved in all stages in the life of infrastructure, from planning and construction to maintenance and demolition. Civil engineering often overlaps with architecture. Civil engineering has many different areas or disciplines. Some important areas are geotechnical engineering, Structural Engineering, environmental, construction management, hydrology, transportation, and materials. It is important for civil engineers to have an understanding of all these disciplines as projects often involve many of them at the same time.File:Pont-R08-Lafayet-10.JPG Pont Lafayette and city of Lyon.]] Civil engineers are responsible for lots of the things that are required for a society to function properly. Safe water supplies, sewage treatment, roads, railways and buildings are all part of civil engineering. To work in civil engineering requires training. Construction workers will train at a center and 'on the job' (training while doing the job), sometimes with apprenticeship. To be a professional in civil engineering requires studying at a university or college. Civil engineers often study subjects like structures, materials, physics and calculus. The profession of civil engineering is represented by professional bodies in various countries. In the UK the Institution of Civil Engineers promotes civil engineering as a discipline and supports engineers throughout their careers. The American Society of Civil Engineers performs a similar task in the USA. Professional engineers often choose to become Chartered Engineers. Chartership shows employers and clients that they are both qualified and experienced in their jobs. Civil engineers usually have to write a big essay and take an interview with a panel of expert engineers to gain chartership. == Related pages == * Geotechnical engineering * Military engineering * National Academy of Engineering * Structural engineering == Other websites == * [http://www.bridgeart.net/wiki List of Civil Engineering Words] == References == Category:construction Category:Civil engineering
