From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Machine gun
File:U.S. Navy special warfare combatant-craft crewmen (SWCC), Special Boat Team 22 conducts training 16 AUG 09.jpg Boat Team crewman firing a heavy machine gun. Note defensive armor and ammo belt; spent Cartridge (firearms) dropping. Crewman in camouflaged outfit, radio equipment, camera on helmet, submachine gun over his shoulder]] File:Gau 17 7.62mm minigun.jpg Minigun. It has an electric motor on top which does the loading, priming, and firing. Note the rapid cartridge case ejection]] A '''machine gun''' is a weapon that can fire one bullet after another as long as the trigger is pulled and there are bullets ready to fire. This is called wikt:automatic fire. A more general name for this type of weapon is an '''automatic weapon'''. Machine guns fire bullets delivered from a long chain of Cartridge (firearms) called an ammunition ('ammo') ''belt'', or use Spring (device)-loaded boxes called ''magazines''. Machine guns are usually divided into heavy-duty machine guns, light machine guns, and sub-machine guns. Heavy machine guns (HMG) are placed on the ground, supported on a tripod, or on a vehicle. The vehicle would have a support for the gun with a rotating base or turret. Heavy machine guns often need two men to operate it, one to assist with loading ammunition, and one to aim and fire. It always takes two or more men to carry one. Famous examples include the M2 Browning machine gun, the MG 42, the M1919 Browning machine gun, the Minigun, the Type 92 machine gun, and the Maxim gun. Light machine guns (LMG) are usually carried and fired by one man. Despite the name, an LMG is almost always rested on a bipod or a tripod while firing since the gun is normally too heavy to fire while standing, although some LMGs such as the Bren LMG and the M1918 Browning Automatic Rifle are light enough to be fired without a bipod or tripod when a Gun sling is worn around the user. Famous examples include the Bren, the BAR, the M249 light machine gun, the M240 machine gun, the RPD, the RPK, the PK machine gun, and the M-60 machine gun. Submachine guns (SMG) are lighter weapons which fire less powerful bullets (usually pistol bullets). They are much easier to Concealed weapon and carry than the heavier versions. Submachine guns have handles (stocks), and are carried by individual soldiers or police officers. Famous examples include the Uzi, the Heckler & Koch MP5, the Thompson submachine gun (a.k.a. Tommy gun), the MAC-10, the PPSh-41, and the MP-40. Assault rifles have automatic capabilities but they are not called machine guns. They are used mainly in Semi-automatic firearm fire, and also normally fire lighter bullets than machine guns. Many heavy machine guns, such as the M2 Browning machine gun, are exact enough to hit distant targets. During the Vietnam War, Carlos Hathcock shot at 7382ft (2250 m) using a .50 caliber heavy machine gun with a telescope sight.Henderson, Charles 2005. ''Marine Sniper''. Berkley Caliber. . == References == == Other websites == * [http://en.citizendium.org/wiki/Machine_gun Machine gun] -Citizendium Category:Machine guns
