From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Robin Hood
Image:Robin Hood Memorial.jpg in Nottingham, England]] '''Robin Hood''' is a folk hero from the Middle Ages in England. He is a Legend person, and people have told stories about him for Century. There are also many books, plays, movies, and cartoons that tell stories about Robin Hood. There are many different versions, but in most stories, Robin Hood is an outlawed nobleman who lives in Sherwood Forest near the town of Nottingham, England. He has two powerful enemies. The first is John of England, who is acting as king while his brother, King Richard I of England, is fighting the Crusades in the Middle East. The second is the Corruption Sheriff of Nottingham. They are Robin Hood’s enemies because they abuse their powers and take money from Poverty people. Using his intelligence and his archery skills, Robin Hood steals back this money and returns it to the poor. In many stories, a group of faithful followers called The Merry Men accompanies Robin. In the earliest Robin Hood stories, The Merry Men were Little John, Much the Miller’s Son, and Will Scarlet. Later stories added Friar Tuck, Alan-a-Dale, and Maid Marian. == In the media == There have been many movies about Robin Hood, including the 1938 movie ''The Adventures of Robin Hood'' starring Errol Flynn. In 1973, Walt Disney Pictures made an animated movie named ''Robin Hood (1973 movie)'' where the characters were shown to be animals. Robin and his lover Marian are foxes. In the 1980's, between 1984 and 1986, ITV commissioned the TV show rendition of the Robin Hood story by the name of ''Robin of Sherwood''. The show starred Michael Praed, Judi Trott, Clive Mantle, Ray Winstone, Nickolas Grace and later Jason Connery (the son of Sean Connery), with the music score provided by Clannad. With the inclusion of more fantasy themes, the show introduced several new characters to the famous story of The Merry Men such as Nazir, as played by Mark Ryan. == Other websites == Category:Robin Hood Category:Fictional British people
