From:
To:
Date:
Subject: T. S. Eliot
File:T.S. Eliot, 1923.JPG '''Thomas Stearns Eliot''' Order of Merit (26 September 1888 – 4 January 1965) was an American-born British poet. He was one of the most influential poets of the 20th century. He also wrote plays and some important essays about literature. ==Early life== He was born in St. Louis, Missouri, then went to college in Harvard. He spent most of his adult life in London, England. He became a British citizen in 1928. ==Career== One famous book of his was written for children and is called ''The Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats''. The songs in the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical ''Cats (musical)'' are based on poems in it. He also wrote "The Waste Land", a very mysterious, complicated poem that helped start a new style called Modernism. His friend, Ezra Pound, another Modern poet, helped him finish it. His poem "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" and his play ''Murder in the Cathedral'' (about Thomas Becket) are also well known. ==Personal life and death== He was married two times. He worked at a bank in England and later as the head editor of a famous publishing company in London that is now called Faber and Faber. In 1948, he won the Nobel Prize in Literature. He died of emphysema in London. == Related pages == *List of poets from North America *List of poets from the United States Category:1888 births Category:1965 deaths Category:Alumni of the University of Oxford Category:American Christians Category:American essayists Category:American literary critics Category:American playwrights Category:American poets Category:British Anglicans Category:British essayists Category:British Nobel Prize winners Category:British playwrights Category:British poets Category:Deaths from emphysema Category:Disease-related deaths in England Category:Harvard University alumni Category:Literary critics Category:Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom Category:Order of Merit Category:Writers from St. Louis, Missouri Category:Nobel Prize in Literature winners
