From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Andes
File:Aerial photo of the Andes.jpg File:Cono de Arita, Salta. (Argentina).jpg (Argentina)]] File:Andes - punta arenas.jpg, Chile]] File:Andes 70.30345W 42.99203S.jpg File:A lake in the Andes Mountains.jpeg The '''Andes''' are a mountain range along the western coast of South America. They stretch over 7,000km / 4,400 miles from the south of Argentina and Chile to the north of Colombia. They are also found in Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador. The Amazon river system has its sources in the eastern flanks of the Andes. The Andes are the longest exposed mountain range of the world, and the second-highest after the Himalayas. The Andes mountain range is the highest mountain range outside Asia. Aconcagua, the highest peak, rises to 6,962m (22,841ft) above sea level. The top of Mount Chimborazo in the Ecuadorean Andes is the point on the Earth's surface most distant from its center. Mount Chimborazo is an inactive volcano in Ecuador, which last erupted over a thousand years ago. == Geography == File:Aconcagua (aerial).jpg view of Aconcagua]] File:Central Andes Mountains, Salar de Arizaro, Argentina.jpg The Andes has three sections: #The southern Andes in Argentina and Chile; #The wiktionary:Central Andes, having the Chilean and Peruvian mountain system and parts of Bolivia; #The northern part in Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador. The northern part has two Parallel (geometry) ranges. They are the ''Cordillera Occidental'' (western) and the ''Cordillera Oriental'' (eastern). The term ''cordillera'' comes from the Spanish language word meaning 'rope'. In Colombia, north to the border with Ecuador, the Andes split in three parallel ranges, western, central and eastern. In the north the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Snowy Mountain Range of Saint Martha) is an isolated mountain range apart from the Andes chain that runs through Colombia. Reaching an altitude of 5,700 metres above sea level just 42km from the Caribbean coast, the Sierra Nevada is the world's highest coastal range. The western range of the eastern Cordillia Oriental is the only one which reaches Colombia . The Andes range is about wide throughout its length, except in Bolivia where it is wide. The islands of the Dutch Caribbean Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, which lie in the Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela, wikt:represent the submerged tops of the northern edge of the Andes range. == Geology == The Andes are a Mesozoic–Tertiary Orogeny belt of mountains along the Pacific Ring of Fire. The Andes are the result of plate tectonics processes, caused by the subduction of oceanic crust beneath the South American continental plate. South America, like North America, has been moving west since the Cretaceous period. Thus the subduction of the Nazca plate beneath the South American plate formed the Andes. This was caused by the westward movement of South America. The formation of the modern Andes began with the events of the Triassic and Jurassic when Pangea begun to break up and several Rift (geology) developed. It was during the Cretaceous period that the Andes began to take their present form, by the uplifting, Fault (geology) and Fold (geology) of sedimentary rock and metamorphic rock of the ancient cratons to the east. The rise of the Andes has not been constant and different regions have had different degrees of tectonic stress, uplift, and weathering. == Climate == File:Andes1a.JPG The climate in the Andes differs depending on which area, the wikt:altitude, and how close it is to the sea. The southern section is rainy and cool. The central Andes are dry. The northern Andes are normally rainy and warm, with an average temperature of in Colombia. The climate is known to change very much in rather short distances. Rainforests exist just miles away from the snow covered peak Cotopaxi. The mountains have a large effect on the temperatures of nearby areas. The snow line depends on the location. It is at between 4,500 and 4,800m (14,800–15,800ft) in the tropical Ecuadorian, Colombian, Venezuelan, and northern Peruvian Andes, going up to 4,800–5,200m (15,800–17,060ft) in the drier mountains of southern Peru south to northern Chile south to about 30°S, then going down to on Aconcagua at 32°S, at 40°S, at 50°S, and only in Tierra del Fuego at 55°S; from 50°S, many of the bigger glaciers go down to sea level. The Andes of Chile and Argentina can be put in two climatic and wikt:glaciological zones; the Dry Andes and the Wet Andes. == Plants == Rainforests used to hold much of the northern Andes but are now reduced, especially in the El Chocó and inter-Andean valleys of Colombia. Farming, deforestation, illegal crops, and population growth has done this. A direct wikt:opposite of the Humidity Andean slopes are the mostly dry Andean slopes in most of western Peru, Chile and Argentina. That area, and many Interandean Valles, normally have deciduous woodland, shrub and xeric (dry) vegetation, up to the mostly lifeless Atacama Desert. About 30,000 species of vascular plants live in the Andes. About half of those are endemism to the region: it is a Biodiversity hotspot. The small tree ''Cinchona pubescens'' is a source of quinine used to treat malaria. It is found widely in the Andes as far south as Bolivia. Other important crops that came from the Andes are tobacco and potatoes. The high-altitude ''Polylepis'' forests and woodlands are found in the Andes of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and Chile. These trees are called Queñua, Yagual and other names. They grow at altitudes of above sea level. It is still unclear if the patchy wikt:distribution of these forests and woodlands is natural, or the result of clearing which began during the Incan time. Regardless, in modern times the clearance has had a faster pace, and the trees are now endangered. Some think as little as 10% of the original woodland is still here. == Wildlife == File:Tunki Tanpupata.jpg Andean Cock-of-the-rock, a species found in humid Andean forests]] File:Ausangate-hillside-MT.jpgs (alpacas) on the mountain Ausangate hillside]] The Andes has a lot of wildlife. With almost 1,000 species, of which about 2/3 are wikt:endemic to the region, the Andes is the most wikt:important region in the world for amphibians.[http://www.biodiversityhotspots.org/xp/hotspots/andes/Pages/biodiversity.aspx Tropical Andes] – biodiversityhotspots.org Animal wikt:diversity in the Andes is high, with almost 600 species of mammals (13% endemic), more than 1,700 species of birds (1/3 endemic), more than 600 species of reptiles (45% endemic), and almost 400 species of fish (1/3 endemic). The Vicuña and Guanaco can be found living in the Altiplano, while the closely related wikt:domesticate Llama and Alpaca are commonly kept by locals as pack animals and for their meat and wool. The nocturnal chinchillas, two threatened members of the rodent order, live in the Andes' alpine regions. The Andean Condor, the largest bird of its kind in the Western Hemisphere, lives throughout much of the Andes but mostly in very low numbers. Other animals found in the mostly open habitats of the high Andes are the huemul, cougar, and foxes in the genus ''Pseudalopex''. And for birds, some species of tinamous (they are members of the genus ''Nothoprocta''), are the Andean Goose, Giant Coot, flamingos (mainly associated with hypersaline lakes), Lesser Rhea, Andean Flicker, Diademed Sandpiper-plover, Geositta, Phrygilus and diuca-finches. == References == == Related pages == * List of mountains in the Andes Category:Andes Category:Mountains of South America
