From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Kelvin
The '''Kelvin scale''' (symbol: K) is the SI unit of temperature. It is named in honour of the physicist William Thomson, the first Lord Kelvin (1824–1907). == Definition == File:Lord Kelvin gravure.jpg The Kelvin scale is defined by a specific relationship between the pressure of a gas and the temperature. This says that "the pressure of the gas is directly proportional to the temperature in Kelvin". This means that Kelvin is an absolute temperature scale, and scientists use this scale more than any other. The kelvin is a base SI unit of measurement, since 2018 defined by setting the fixed numerical value of the Boltzmann constant ''k'' to 1.380649×10−23 J⋅K−1. The temperature of the triple point of water is a hundredth of a degree Celsius above the freezing point, or 0.01°C. The coldest possible temperature is called absolute zero and is equal to -273.15degreesCelsius, or zerokelvin (0K). By writing temperatures in kelvins one does not need to use negative numbers. The absolute temperature scale was designed so that a change in temperature of 1kelvin is equal to a change of 1degreeCelsius. This means that it is easy to convert a temperature from degrees Celsius to kelvin. * To change a temperature in degrees Celsius into Kelvins you must add 273.15units. For example, 0degreesCelsius (0°C), which is the temperature at which water freezes, is 273.15kelvins (273.15K). * To change a temperature in Kelvins into degrees Celsius you must subtract 273.15units. For example, 310kelvins is 36.85degreesCelsius, which is roughly the normal temperature of a human body. It is important to notice that the name of this unit is simply ''kelvin'' (with a lowercase initial), not "degree Kelvin". In English, it undergoes normal plural inflection as ''kelvins''. For example, the boiling point of liquid nitrogen is 77kelvins. In everyday use, the kelvin is most commonly used to measure very low or very high temperatures, such as the temperature of liquid nitrogen or the temperature of a light bulb filament. The Rankine scale (or degree Rankine) is a related absolute temperature scale, but based on the degree Fahrenheit rather than the degree Celsius. ==References== ==Related pages== * Temperature * Celsius Category:SI units Category:Units of temperature
