From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Eminem
| birth_place = St. Joseph, Missouri, U.S. | occupation = | other_names = | spouse = * }} | years_active = 1988–present | children = 3 | works = | awards = | module = }} | current_member_of = Bad Meets Evil | past_member_of = | website = }} }} '''Marshall Bruce Mathers III''' (born October 17, 1972), known professionally as '''Eminem''', is an American rapper, songwriter, record producer, and actor.|title=Eminem – Biography|last=Ankeny|first=Jason|author2=Torreano, Bradley|year=2006|publisher=AllMusic|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20171201101624/https://www.allmusic.com/artist/eminem-mn0000157676|archive-date=December 1, 2017|access-date=January 30, 2008}} He became popular in 1999 with the release of the album ''The Slim Shady LP'', which won the Grammy Award for Best Rap Album that year. His next work, ''The Marshall Mathers LP'', became the best-selling solo album in U.S. history. This made him known around the world. He helped publicize his record label, Shady Records, and the group D12. ''The Marshall Mathers LP'' and his fourth album, ''The Eminem Show'', also won the Grammy Awards. This made him the first artist to win the Best Rap Album of the Year award three times in a row. In 2003, he won an Academy Award for Best Original Song with "Lose Yourself." That song was featured in a movie called ''8 Mile''. "Lose Yourself" would become the single that for the longest time occupied the top spot of the hip hop charts. In 2004, rumors about the end of his career were announced after the release of ''Encore (album).'' Those rumors were ended with the release of his album Relapse (album) on May 19, 2009. According to Nielsen SoundScan, Eminem was the best selling artist of the 2000s in the United States and was the 30th best selling artist of all time in 2010, according to the ranking of the Recording Industry Association of America, with estimated sales of 220 million records worldwide. In 2010, he released ''Recovery''. ''Recovery'' was the best-selling album worldwide of 2010. Eminem was voted #79 on VH1's "100 Greatest Artists of All Time" list. He was ranked 82nd by Rolling Stone magazine. Including work with D12, Eminem has nine albums at the top of the Billboard Global 200, seven solo (6 studio, 1 compilation) and two with D12. He has 13 singles in the top position worldwide. He was recognized by the ''Billboard (magazine)'' as the Artist of the Decade (2000-2009). Eminem has also sold more than 17 million Download of his songs in the United States alone. In 2009, Eminem was elected the best rapper of all time by popular vote by Vibe (magazine), beating Tupac Shakur in the finals. == Early life == Marshall Bruce Mathers III was born on October 17, 1972 in St. Joseph, Missouri, Missouri. He is the only son of Deborah Nelson Mathers-Briggs and Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. His ancestry is diverse, including Scottish people, Welsh people, English people,Germans, Switzerland, Poles, and possibly Luxembourg ancestors. His father left his family when he was a year and a half old, and Marshall was raised only by his mother in poverty. At age twelve, he and his mother Deborah had moved several times and lived in several towns and cities in Missouri (including Saint Joseph, Savannah, Missouri, and Kansas City, Missouri) before settling in Warren, Michigan, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Eminem had a very troubled and unstable childhood. He frequently had his house robbed, attempted to commit suicide multiple times, and had a hard relationship with his mother. He was frequently bullied at school for his short stature. When he was 9, he was beaten to the point of unconsciousness and was Hospital with a cerebral hemorrhage. After getting a copy of the album ''Licensed to Ill'', from the Beastie Boys group as a teenager, Marshall became interested in hip hop. He began to make raps at the age of 14 under the pseudonym "M&M". Shortly after that, he joined the Bassmint Productions group, which released an Extended play titled ''Steppin' onto the Scene''. After the release of the EP, Bassmint productions changed its same to "Soul intent". The group released Eminem's first single, called "Fuckin' Backstabber", in 1995 under the independent record label Mashin' Duck Records. Despite being a student at Lincoln High School (Warren, Michigan) in Warren, Eminem would sneak out and often participated in Freestyle rap rap battles at Osborn High School in eastern Detroit. Even though most of the hip-hop members in his state were African-American people, Marshall ended up being well accepted by the underground hip hop public. After repeating the ninth grade three times for truancy and low grades, he dropped out of school at age 17. Although he dropped out of school, he eventually got his GED. In 1991, his uncle, Ronnie Polkingharn, committed suicide. Mathers was very close to him and was shocked by this fact. He has a tattoo remembering him on his left arm that says "Ronnie RIP". == Career == === 1992–1996: Early career and ''Infinite'' === One of Mathers' early Mentorship was the local rapper Champtown, who gave Mathers his first time in a studio. Mathers also starred in his first song in Champtown's "Do-Da-Dipity" in 1992. Mathers and Champtown later had relationship problems and their friendship ended in 1995. Champtown said Eminem falsely accused him of trying to get with his wife at the time, Kim. Before he began rapping, Mathers also had a few minimum wage jobs. Some of these were at a restaurant called Gilbert's Lodge and at Little Caesars. Mathers was first signed to FBT Productions in 1992, run by brothers Jeff and Mark Bass. In 1996, his debut album ''Infinite (Eminem album)'', which was recorded at Bassmint, a recording studio owned by the Bass Brothers, was released on the independent company Web Entertainment. Eminem recalls "Obviously, I was young and influenced by other artists, and I remember several comments saying that I looked like Nas and AZ (rapper). ''Infinite'' served me to try to figure out what my rap style was, how my voice would sound on the mic and live. It was a growth phase. I felt ' infinite ' as a demo album that ended up being pressed to become studio." Subjects covered in ''Infinite'' included his problems in raising his newborn daughter, Hailie Jade Mathers, in a decent way while he had little money. Early in his career, Eminem formed a hip hop duo with another Detroit rapper, Royce da 5'9", called Bad Meets Evil.|title=Royce da 5'9 – Biography|last=Anziri|first=Jon|year=2002|publisher=AllMusic|access-date=January 30, 2008}} After the release of Infinite, Eminem's personal problems and Drug abuse and alcohol were too much and he attempted suicide.|title=Eminem – Biography |last=Ankeny|first=Jason|year=2006 |publisher= AllMusic|access-date= January 30, 2008|author2= Torreano, Bradley}} Jimmy Iovine, co-founder of Interscope Records, asked for a demo from Eminem after he finished second in the 1997 Rap Olympics. Eminem had also won ''Wake Up show's Freestyle Performer of The Year'', which helped him to land a recording contract.Anish, Chandy. Eminem Biography. http://www.buzzle.com/editorials/4-28-2005-69211.asp Iovine played the demo for hip hop producer Dr. Dre, the owner of Aftermath Entertainment. The two began recording songs for Eminem's ''The Slim Shady LP'' and Eminem had a cameo appearance on the album ''Devil Without a Cause'' by Kid Rock. Hip-Hop magazine ''The Source'' had Eminem in its "Unsigned Hype" article in March 1998. === 1997–1999: ''The Slim Shady LP'' === Eminem signed with Interscope Records and Aftermath Entertainment in 1998. He released his major-label Debut album album, ''The Slim Shady LP'', a year later in February 1999. ''Billboard (magazine)'' praised the album as "light years ahead of the material he had written before". It went on to be one of the most popular albums of 1999, and went 3x Platinum album in the United States before the end of the year. The album's popularity also brought controversy around the lyrics. In '97 Bonnie and Clyde" he describes a trip with his newborn daughter, Hailie, when he discards his wife's body, and in another song called "Guilty Conscience", it ends with Persuasion a man to kill his wife and his lover. "Guilty Conscience" marked the beginning of the friendship and musical bond between Dr. Dre and Eminem. The two would later Collaboration on a lot of hit songs, including "Forgot About Dre" and "What's the Difference" from Dr. Dre's album ''2001 (Dr. Dre album)'', "Bitch Please II" from ''The Marshall Mathers LP'', "Say What You Say" from ''The Eminem Show'', "Old Time's Sake" and "Crack a Bottle" from ''Relapse (album)'' and "I Need a Doctor" and "Die Hard" from Dr. Dre's ''Compton (album)''. Dr. Dre would have at least one guest appearance on all of Eminem's studio albums for Aftermath Entertainment. The album has now been certified 5x platinum in the US. With this release, Eminem was accused of Imitation the style and word choice of underground rapper Cage (rapper). === 2000–2001: ''The Marshall Mathers LP''=== ''The Marshall Mathers LP'' was released in May 2000. The album sold more than 1.78 million copies in the US in its first week, breaking both the record for the best-selling hip hop album, held by Snoop Dogg's ''Doggystyle'', and the best-selling album in its first week in the U.S., held by Britney Spears' ''...Baby One More Time''."[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/1271224.stm Eminem's criminal record]", BBC News. April 11, 2001. Retrieved July 8, 2008. The first single from the album, "The Real Slim Shady", was a huge success, although it created a lot of controversy by insulting Celebrity and making negative claims about them. Among other things, he claims that Christina Aguilera had oral sex with Fred Durst and Carson Daly. On the album's second single, "The Way I Am", he tells his Fan (person) about the pressure his record company puts on him to surpass the sale of "My Name Is". Although Eminem Parody rock musician Marilyn Manson (musician) in the song, the artists are openly friends. Manson starred in the music video for "The Way I Am" and he was also part of a Remixing of the song for a concert with Eminem. On the album's third and most successful single, "Stan (song)", he samples Dido (singer)'s song "Thank You (Dido)". In the song, Eminem plays the personality of a Psychopathy Fan (person) who ends up killing himself and his pregnant girlfriend, similar to the song "'97 Bonnie & Clyde" from ''The Slim Shady LP''. In the music video of "Stan", Eminem is shown writing with his Left-handedness. This ended a debate between fans about his dominant hand. ''Q Magazine'' awarded Stan the third best selling rap song ever, while Top40-Charts.com placed the song to be the tenth best-selling rap song. The song has since been praised and the ''Rolling Stone Magazine'' ranked the song as #290 in their 500 Best Songs of All Time. In July 2000, Eminem became the first Skin person to come to the front page of ''The Source''. The album has received 10x platinum status from the RIAA. Eminem appeared alongside Elton John at the Grammy Award in Los Angeles in 2001. The GLAAD, an organization that thought Eminem's Lyric poetry were Homophobia, didn't like the openly Homosexuality John's decision to perform with Eminem. ''Entertainment Weekly'' said "It was the hug heard around the Earth. Eminem, under accusations of homophobic lyrics, shared the stage with a homo icon for a performance of Stan that would have been unforgettable in any context."Geier, Thom; Jensen, Jeff; Jordan, Tina; Lyons, Margaret; Markovitz, Adam; Nashawaty, Chris; Pastorek, Whitney; Rice, Lynette; Rottenberg, Josh; Schwartz, Missy; Slezak, Michael; Snierson, Dan; Stack, Tim; Stroup, Kate; Tucker, Ken; Vary, Adam B.; Vozick-Levinson, Simon; Ward, Kate (December 11, 2009), "The 100 greatest movies, TV shows, albums, books, characters, scenes, episodes, songs, dresses, music videos and trends that entertained us over the past 10 years". ''Entertainment Weekly''. (1079/1080):74-84 On February 21, the day of the ceremony, GLAAD held a protest outside the Staples Center, the site where it took place. He was also in the Up In The Smoke with Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Xzibit and Ice Cube and the Family Values Tour with the band Limp Bizkit. === 2002–2003: ''The Eminem Show'' === Eminem's third major album, ''The Eminem Show'', was released in the summer of 2002 and was another big hit. The album peaked at the Billboard Hot 100, selling well over a million copies in its first week. The album's first single was the song "Without Me", in which Eminem made depressive comments about Limp Bizkit, Moby and Lynne Cheney, among others. Other singles from the album include "Cleanin' Out My Closet" and "Sing for the Moment". The album has been certified eight times platinum by the RIAA. The album speaks on topics such as his way to fame, his relationship with his wife and daughter, and his status in the hip-hop community. He also addresses the Indictment of Assault a bouncer who kissed his wife in 2000. Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic felt that even though anger was present on several of the album's tracks, the album was not as Provocation as ''The Marshall Mathers LP''. L. Brent Bozell III, who criticized ''The Marshall Mathers LP'' for being too tasteless and incoherent, noted that ''The Eminem Show'' used Obscenity language and gave Eminem the nickname ''Eminef'', for the "clean version" of the word ''motherfucker'', a word often used on the album. The album sold 10,600,000 copies, making it one of Eminem's two diamond-certified studio albums. === 2004–2005: ''Encore'' === On December 8, 2003, The Media Research Center said that the United States Secret Service admitted that it was "keeping an eye on Eminem" for his allegations and threats with the President of the United States. The lyrics in question are: : "Fuck money, I don't rap for dead presidents. I'd rather see the president dead. It's never been said, but I set precedents." The song, "We as Americans" ended up on a bonus Compact disc accompanying the ''Encore (album)'' album.|title="Encore" – Overview|last=Erlewine|first=Stephen Thomas|year=2004|publisher=AllMusic|access-date=September 17, 2007}} ''Encore'' was released in 2004 and became another chart-topping leader, driven by the single "Just Lose It", which Disrespect pop singer Michael Jackson. On October 12 of the same year, a week after the release of "Just Lose It", Jackson was invited to a radio show in Los Angeles where he expressed his displeasure with the music video because it Parody the trial for child abuse, Plastic surgery, and the incident in which Michael's hair caught fire during the filming of a Pepsi commercial in 1984. Many of Jackson's supporters and friends commented on the video, including Stevie Wonder, who said that the video "is like kicking someone who is already on the ground" and "is idiocy". Steve Harvey also stated, "Eminem has lost his ghetto pass. We want the pass back". He also said he was not pleased with the way he chose to show the Black people. The music video also makes fun of Pee-Wee Herman, M.C. Hammer and Madonna. In contrast, the comedian Weird Al Yankovic made a protest to Eminem in the song "Couch Potato", in which he parodies the international success of "Lose Yourself" of the movie ''8 Mile''. Yankovic said: "Last year, Eminem forced me to stop the production of the parody video of "Lose Yourself" because he thought it would be detrimental to his image and his career. So the irony of the situation with Michael is not lost to me." Black Entertainment Television was the first channel to ask to stop displaying the video. However, MTV announced that it would continue to display "Just Lose It." President Raymond "Benzino" Scott of the ''Source'' magazine, wanted not only the video to be removed, but also the song from the album, and a public apology from Eminem to Jackson, which did not occur. In 2007, Jackson and Sony bought ''Famous Music LLC'' from Viacom. The acquisition thus gave them rights to the songs from Shakira, Beck and Eminem among others. Despite the comic issue of the first single, ''Encore'' had along with him serious subject tracks, such as the song "Mosh". On October 25, 2004, a week before the United States presidential election, 2004, Eminem released the music video for "Mosh" on the internet. The song highlights a strong anti-George W. Bush message, with parts like "Fuck Bush" and "This weapon of mass destruction that we call the president." The video shows Eminem gathering an army of people, including rapper Lloyd Banks, presented as victims of the Bush administration and taken to the White House. However, at the moment the weapons break, it is revealed that people are there only to vote, and it ends with the words "Vote Tuesday November 2!" on the screen. After Bush was re-elected, Eminem modified the video, with demonstrators invading while the president was giving a lecture. In 2004 he also launched a satellite music channel, Shade 45, on Sirius XM radio, which was described by his manager as "essentially a destination to get and hear things that other people aren't playing." === 2005–2008: Retirement rumors === File:Eminem Live.jpg In 2005, many musical experts predicted that Eminem was thinking of ending his career after six years. This began in 2005, when a double album was about to be released under the name of ''The Funeral''. The album was a Compilation album of Greatest hits album, and was sold under the name ''Curtain Call: The Hits''. The album was released by Aftermath Entertainment in December 2005, and sold almost 441,000 copies in the first week in the U.S. It was Eminem's fourth consecutive album to be number one on the Billboard Hot 100.Harris, Chris (December 14, 2005). [http://www.mtv.com/news/articles/1518100/20051214/eminem.jhtml "Eminem Scores Fourth #1 Bow With Curtain Call"] . MTV. MTV Networks. It was certified as platinum twice by the RIAA. In July 2005, the ''Detroit Free Press'' said that this would be the final stage of Eminem's career, and that he would be interested in becoming a producer or executive of a record label. Eminem denied that he would be retiring through the radio ''Mojo in the Morning'' of Detroit, but stated that he would give a break in his career: : "I'm at a point in my life right now where I feel like I don't know where my career is going. This is the reason that we called the new CD ''Curtain Call,'' because this could be the final thing. We don't know." In 2006, Eminem released a new compilation called ''Eminem Presents: The Re-Up'', to help the growth of the newly created Shady Records label. Eminem was the subject of the book ''100 People Who Are Screwing Up America'' by Bernard Goldberg, in which he was ranked in position 58. Goldberg quoted a column of Bob Herbert from ''The New York Times'', who said, "In the world of Eminem, all women are Whore and he is eager to rape them and then murder them". Goldberg also cited the song "No One's Iller" from ''Slim Shady EP'' as an example of misogyny. In the summer of 2005, Eminem announced a tour called Anger Management Tour, featuring artists 50 Cent, G-Unit, Lil Jon, D12, Obie Trice and The Alchemist. In August, the European part of the tour was cancelled, as Eminem claimed that he had entered a drug Rehab center clinic for sleeping pill addiction treatment. === 2008–2010: ''Relapse'' and ''Recovery'' === In September 2007, Eminem spoke with 50 Cent at the Hot 97 radio station in New York City about his rumored retirement. He said, "I'm always working. I'm always in the studio. It feels good right now, the energy of the label. For a while, I didn't want to go back to the studio... I went through some personal things. Now I'm coming out of those personal things and it feels good." Eminem made his first appearance in a year in September 2008 at his radio station, the Shade 45, where he said: "I'm concentrating on my own stuff right now—just bangin' out tracks. The more I keep producing, the better it seems I get. I start knowing stuff, learning the boards like the back of my hands." In an interview with Billboard (magazine) in December 2008, he revealed that the album would be released in the spring on 2009, be called ''Relapse,'' and most of the tracks would be produced by Dr. Dre. In a statement on March 5, 2009, Eminem stated that he would release two albums that year. The first single, "We Made You", was released in April. ''Relapse (album)'' was officially released on May 19, but did not achieve the same success as the previous four albums. Eminem still received positive reviews for his return to hip hop. On November 19, he announced the release of ''Relapse: Refill'' on December 21. It was a relaunch of ''Relapse'' with the addition of seven bonus tracks, including "Forever (Drake song)" and "Taking My Ball". On April 14, 2010, Eminem said there was no ''Relapse 2''. He had changed its title to ''Recovery.'' “I had originally planned for Relapse 2 to come out last year, but as I kept recording and working with new producers, the idea of a sequel to Relapse started to make less and less sense to me, and I wanted to make a completely new album. The music on Recovery came out very different from Relapse, and I think it deserves its own title." ''Recovery'' was released on June 18, 2010. It sold 741,000 copies during its first week in the US, topping the Billboard charts chart. The album was also at the top of the charts in several other countries. ''Recovery'' remained atop the ''Billboard'' 200 chart for five weeks. Its first single, "Not Afraid", was released on April 29, and its music video was released on June 4. "Not Afraid" was followed by "Love the Way You Lie". ''Recovery'' was the best-selling album worldwide in 2010, with over 3.4 million copies sold. === 2012–2014: ''The Marshall Mathers LP 2'' === On May 24, 2012, Eminem announced that he was working on his eighth studio album, for release the following year. During the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards, it was announced that the album would be named ''The Marshall Mathers LP 2'' (following ''The Marshall Mathers LP'') and was going to be released on November 5. The album was released with 16 tracks. On November 3, Eminem was named the first YouTube Music Awards Artist of the Year. Eminem was the first artist to receive two digital diamond certifications for sales and streams of 10 million and above by the RIAA for "Not Afraid" and "Love the Way You Lie". At the Grammy Award, he received Best Rap Album award for ''The Marshall Mathers LP 2'' and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration (with Rihanna) for "The Monster". === 2017-Present === In February 2017, Eminem appeared on "No Favors", a track from Big Sean album ''I Decided''. In the song, Eminem calls Donald Trump a "bitch". He also raps about sexual assaulting Ann Coulter, who is a Trump supporter, with a "lamp post", a "bolt cutter", and many other objects. Since then Eminem has released ''Revival (Eminem album)'', ''Kamikaze (Eminem album)'', Music to Be Murdered By and The Death of Slim Shady (Coup de Grâce). == Personal life == Eminem has one daughter named Hailie Jade Scott. She was born on Christmas 1995 in Detroit, Michigan from ex-wife Kimberly Anne Scott. Eminem married Kimberly Anne in June 1999 and they divorced in March 2001. Although in 2002, he told ''Rolling Stone'', "I would rather have a baby through my penis than get married again." he remarried Kim in January 2006 but divorced just three months later in April. He was the legal guardian of Alaina, the daughter of Kim's twin sister, and Whitney, Kim's daughter from another relationship. He has rapped about his daughters in many of his songs. Eminem is also an NFL fan, and supports the Detroit Lions and the Dallas Cowboys. === Legal Issues === On June 3, 2000, Eminem was arrested during an argument at a car-audio store in Royal Oak, Michigan. He pulled out an unloaded gun and pointed it at the ground. The next day, in Warren, Michigan, he was arrested again for assaulting John Guerra and hitting him with a gun when he saw him kissing his wife. He was charged with possession of a concealed weapon and assault. On June 28, 2001, he was sentenced to one year's probation and community service and was Fine about $2,000 on weapon charges that came from an argument with a Psychopathic Records employee. In December 2003, the United States Secret Service reported that it was "looking into" accusations that Eminem threatened U.S. President George W. Bush in "We As Americans" when he said these lyrics: "Fuck money, I don't rap for dead presidents. I'd rather see the president dead, it's never been said but I set precedents." === Health issues === Eminem has spoken publicly about his addiction to Prescription, including Acetaminophen, Zolpidem, and Diazepam. In 2001, he said he believed he had been suffering from Tourette syndrome. He revealed that he was taking up to 60 Valium and 30 Vicodin pills every day, and that doctors told him he was two hours away from dying at one point. In December 2007, Eminem overdosed on methadone. He fell on his bathroom floor while urinating and needed to be hospitalized. Due to this, he couldn't spend Christmas break with his kids. He was sent home a few days later, but was readmitted to the hospital again with a torn Meniscus (liquid) that required surgery. He got surgery and was released. A few days later, he was readmitted to the hospital again, this time with a seizure. Speaking about his addiction, he said, "In seven months I was able to accomplish more than I could accomplish in three or four years of doing drugs." During his heavy drug use period, he revealed that he gained 80pounds, and was going to McDonald's and Taco Bell every day. He said, "I remember being somewhere and hearing these kids talking. One of them said, 'That’s Eminem,' and the other said, 'No, it’s not, man – Eminem ain’t fat.' I was like, Motherfucker. That’s when I knew I was getting heavy." He also said that Elton John was the person who helped him the most with his recovery and that Elton John called him once a week to check on him. ==Discography== * ''Infinite (Eminem album)'' (1996) * ''The Slim Shady LP'' (1999) * ''The Marshall Mathers LP'' (2000) * ''The Eminem Show'' (2002) * ''Encore (album)'' (2004) * ''Relapse (album)'' (2009) * ''Recovery'' (2010) * ''The Marshall Mathers LP 2'' (2013) * ''Revival (Eminem album)'' (2017) * ''Kamikaze (Eminem album)'' (2018) * ''Music to Be Murdered By'' (2020) * ''The Death of Slim Shady (Coup de Grâce)'' (2024) * Most of these have deluxe versions ==Notes== ==References== Category:1972 births Category:Living people Category:Actors from Detroit Category:Actors from Missouri Category:American movie actors Category:20th-century American rappers Category:21st-century American rappers Category:Rappers from Missouri Category:American record producers Category:Eminem Category:People from St. Joseph, Missouri Category:Rappers from Michigan Category:People from Detroit Category:Singers from Missouri Category:Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters Category:Hardcore hip hop artists
