From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Laws of war
File:Original Geneva Conventions.jpg is about the sick and wounded members of armed forces. It was signed in 1864.]] File:The First International Peace Conference, the Hague, May - June 1899 HU67224.jpg The '''Laws of war''' are some simple rules or international law which most people accept about fighting out of humanitarianism. Many people think that because there is fighting, there should be no rules. This is called "total war". However, laws of war have been made so that wars do not get worse than they need to be. #Anything marked as a hospital, an ambulance, a Medical doctor, or a first aid person are not to be attacked. Those places, vehicles, and people should not have weapons. #Anyone who is a member of a neutrality (international relations) is not to be a wikt:target of violence unless the said person is committing or intending to commit a hostile act. #Anyone fighting in the war has to wear a uniform. They can only wear the uniform of their side. Also they have to carry their weapons out in the open where they can be seen. #Anyone carrying or waving a plain white flag or piece of cloth must not be attacked. That person should also not attack anyone. They may want to wikt:surrender, or just talk about ways to solve the problem without more fighting. #Any enemy soldier captured must be treated fairly as a prisoner of war. #religion buildings such as churchs, mosques, and temples are to be protected at all costs. #Occupied territory should be governed fairly and not looted or devastated. ==Where the laws come from== These laws come from various treaties. Some of these treaties are: *The Paris Declaration Respecting Maritime Law of 1856. It abolished privateering *The Geneva Conventions ''for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armed Forces in the Field'' of 1864 *The St. Petersburg Declaration of 1868. It bans ammunition of less that 400 grams weight. It also bans ammunition with Fulminates in them, or with flammability substances. Through this convention, it is no longer allowed to use ammunition that falls apart into fragments, that burns, or wikt:explosion for small arms. Such ammunition can still be used in autocannon or artillery though. *The Hague Conventions of 1898 and 1907 *Various other Geneva Conventions *The United Nations Charter *Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects. This bans certain types of weapons (like some landmines, weapons with fragmenting ammunition, incendiary devices and blinding laser weapons) == Related pages == *International humanitarian law *Military justice Category:War Category:Law of war Category:International law
