From:
To:
Date:
Subject: George Lucas
File:George Lucas cropped 2009.jpg '''George Walton Lucas Jr.''' (born May 14, 1944) is an Americans movie director, movie producer, and screenwriter most famous for the ''Star Wars'' and ''Indiana Jones'' movie series. He also directed the movies ''THX 1138'' (1971) and ''American Graffiti'' (1973). He made the ''Indiana Jones'' series with Steven Spielberg. He is also an innovator for what he has done with special effects, and has founded companies that make not only movies, but also things like video games, theme park rides, and television programme. Lucas founded the Pixar animation studio and later sold it to Steve Jobs in 1986 for $10 million. ==Personal life== He has three children: Katie, Amanda and Jett Lucas (born 1993). Jett has had cameo appearances in ''Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones'' and ''Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith'' as Zett Jukassa. Lucas began dating Mellody Hobson, president of Ariel Investments and chair of DreamWorks Animation, in 2006. Lucas and Hobson announced their engagement in January 2013, and married on June 22, 2013 at Lucas's Skywalker Ranch in Marin County, California. ==George Lucas Cultural Arts Museum== A George Lucas Cultural Arts Museum was to be built in San Francisco, California, but after talks failed, Lucas decided not to build the museum in San Francisco. Soon afterwards, the Chicago Tribune reported that Lucas wanted to build the museum in Chicago, Illinois. Lucas said: ''"The city of Chicago has enthusiastically welcomed me and I consider Chicago to be my second home," Lucas said in a statement. "I look forward to working with community leaders to see if Chicago can become home to the Lucas Cultural Arts Museum. "'' The office of Mayor of Chicago Rahm Emanuel confirmed that talks between the two were ongoing. A potential lakefront site on Museum Campus in Chicago was proposed in May 2014. On June 24, 2014, the ''Chicago Sun-Times'' reported that Chicago was selected as the location, pending approval of the Chicago Plan Commission. The commission approved the idea and the museum will be built in Chicago. ==References== ==Other websites== * Category:1944 births Category:American cinematographers Category:American movie editors Category:American screenwriters Category:American television producers Category:American television writers Category:Living people Category:Movie directors from California Category:Movie producers from California Category:Businesspeople from California Category:American company founders Category:American billionaires Category:Writers from California
