From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Nightclub
File:Club Tropicana Havana SeanMcClean.jpg.]] File:Havanatrop.jpgs at tables. The ''Tropicana'' in Havana]] A '''nightclub''' is a type of theatre or Bar (business) or club where there are shows, singers and dance girls. Examples of this are the ''Folies Bergère'' in Paris; the ''Tropicana'' in Havana; and the ''Cotton Club'' in Harlem, Manhattan, New York City. Also the name is used for places for adults socialize, meet others, and drink Alcoholic drink like wine, beer, and mixed drinks. Most nightclubs are only open in the evening and at night. Some are open during the day, but in those cases, they usually provides a different service such as a Restaurant. Image:Gatecrasher.jpg dance music event in Sheffield, England]] File:Beo_Beyond_Costume_design.jpg ==Activities== Nightclubs, in the original sense, put on shows that people watched while they sat in chairs, often at a table at which food and drink were served. Today, the word is used for venues with a dance floor and a disc jockey playing Pop music, Rock music, and dance music recordings. Some nightclubs have entertainment such as pop bands, rock bands, or comedians. Some nightclubs have a quieter lounge area with couches, sofas, and low tables so that people can talk together. Most have Hamburger and Chicken wing for the people at the party ==Food and drinks== Some nightclubs also serve a small selection of food, usually snacks or finger food. Nightclubs often have a much wider selection of alcoholic drinks than pubs, which specialize in beer and ale. Most nightclubs sell a number of different brands of Liquor, Liqueur, wine, and sherry. Some nightclubs have a large selection of expensive brands of alcohol, which are called "premium" brands. The bartenders (also called "barmen" or "barmaids") at nightclubs often make a much larger variety of mixed drinks than pubs. Mixed drinks and cocktails are alcoholic drinks that consist of one or more types of alcohol (e.g., rum, vodka, whiskey, etc.), mixed with flavorings such as orange juice, cream, chocolate syrup, or Soft drink. Many mixed drinks also include ice, crushed ice, or sliced lemon or lime. Some well-known mixed drinks include the martini, the Cuba libre (also called the "Rum and Coke"), and the "Screwdriver (cocktail)" (orange juice mixed with vodka). ==Staff== Nightclubs hire a variety of staff to do different jobs. Bartenders (also called "barmen" or "barmaids") at nightclubs serve alcohol and mix drinks. Some nightclubs hire servers to bring drinks to people who are sitting at tables or in chairs. Some nightclubs also hire people to take away empty bottles and glasses. Security in nightclubs is provided by door staff, often called "bouncers". Door staff check the identification of people entering the nightclub to ensure that people that are too young to drink do not enter the club. Door staff also prevent drunk or aggressive people from entering the nightclub. They also escort people out of the club if they are drunk, fighting, or taking Illegal_drugs. Door staff may also call the police if they cannot deal with a situation. Nightclubs that serve food have cooks, dishwashers, and servers to prepare, cook, and serve the food. Nightclubs also have coat check employees to hang up the patron's coats, sound technicians to maintain the sound system (the Compact disc player, amplifiers, and speakers), and cleaners to sweep the floors and clean the bathrooms. Some large nightclubs may hire Disc jockey (DJs) to work in the club every week as employees. DJs, Band, and Comedian entertain patrons during the evening but are usually not usually employees of the nightclub. Instead, the nightclub signs a contract with the entertainers in which they promise to come to the club on a specified night in return for a sum of money. Category:Places where alcohol is served Category:Entertainment venues
