From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Independence Day (United States)
In the United States, '''Independence Day''', commonly known as '''the Fourth of July''' or '''the Fourth''', is a holiday commemorating the adoption of the United States Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring the independence of the Thirteen Colonies from the United Kingdom of Great Britain. On Independence Day there are many events such as Fireworks#U.S. Independence Day, parades, barbecues, carnivals, picnics, concerts, baseball games, political speeches and ceremonies, and various other public and private events. These events celebrate the history, government, and traditions of the United States. Independence Day, the only holiday that celebrates the United States, is a National Day marked by patriotism displays. Similar to other summer-themed events, Independence Day celebrations often take place outdoors. Independence Day is a federal holiday, so all non-essential federal institutions (like the United States Postal Service and United States federal courts) are closed on that day. Many politicians make it a point on this day to appear at a public event to praise the nation's heritage, laws, history, society, and people. Families often celebrate Independence Day by having or going to a picnic or barbecue, and take advantage of the day off and in some years, long weekend to gather with relatives and friends. People may also do fun and relaxing hobbies like any other day off such as swimming, fishing, boating, sunbathing, playing sports, or just kicking back and relaxing. Many stores are open on the fourth so people may go shopping. In the evening, people may launch their own fireworks. Decorations (e.g., streamers, balloons, and clothing) are generally colored red, white, and blue, the colors of the Flag of the United States. Parades often are in the morning, while fireworks displays occur in the evening at such places as parks, fairgrounds, or town squares. On the 4th of July Americans do these things: * Fireworks * Hold parades * Bake red, blue and white desserts, such as cakes and cookies * Create 4th of July wands. ==Celebration gallery== File:Independence Day, 1940 Promotion.ogv|Trailer in movie theaters celebrating July 4, 1940 File:July 4th fireworks, Washington, D.C. LOC 8385170598.jpg|Fireworks over the National Mall in Washington, D.C. This is shown every year on the American public television network PBS. Miamifireworks.jpg|In addition to a fireworks show, Miami, Florida lights Miami Tower with the patriotic red, white and blue on Independence Day. File:Fireworks over the East Village of New York City.JPG|New York City's fireworks display, shown above over the East Village, Manhattan[https://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2009-07-04-fourth-of-july_N.htm Biggest fireworks show in U.S. lights up sky] , USA Today, July 2009. File:Fourth of July Lubec.jpg|Many types of towns hold celebrations. This photo shows a fireworks display in America's most eastern town, Lubec, Maine, population 1,300. File:Fourth of July Cake.jpg|An Independence Day cake File:Narberth Fireworks July 4th 2008.jpg|Fireworks in Narberth, Pennsylvania. File:Boulder Street 4th of July parade, Denver, 2009.jpg|Neighborhood parade in Denver, Colorado, 2009 File:Chico 4th of July Parade 2024-104A2396.jpg|4th of July Parade in Chico, California, 2024 ==Related pages== * Juneteenth National Independence Day ==References== Category:Independence days Category:July observances
