From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Feminism
File:Mary Wollstonecraft cph.3b11901.jpg '''Feminism''' is a Society , Politics , and Economics movement. It is about changing the way that people see male and female rights and campaigning for equal rights. A feminist is someone who follows feminism. Feminism began in the 18th century with the Enlightenment. The controversy over gender differences led to the discussion of equality. == History of feminism == The word "feminism" comes from the French word "féminisme". This medical term was used to describe masculine women or men with feminized traits. When its use became popular in the United States of America, it was used to refer to groups of women who "asserted the uniqueness of women, the Mysticism experience of motherhood and women's special purity. === General history === Feminism started with the idea that human rights should be given to women. This idea was put forward by some philosophy in the 18th century and 19th century such as Mary Wollstonecraft and John Stuart Mill. Later feminists in the early 20th century said that women should be allowed to vote in a democracy. Many women felt strongly that they should be allowed to vote, and many protests existed. These women were called list of feminists. This is because they were fighting for Universal suffrage, which means everybody can vote. The Suffragettes staged many protests for their rights. Some women even committed suicide to show how wrong it was that they could not take part in politics. After women received the vote, feminism worked to make all of society more equal for women. Feminism is generally acknowledged to have "waves," with different periods focusing on different aspects of feminism and often building on the ideas presented by the previous wave. == First wave (approx. 1830s – early 1900s) == The first wave of feminism could be dated earlier to include pre-nineteenth-century women's rights movements. The French Revolution of 1789 is often attributed as the beginning of the first demands for women's rights. This inspired Mary Wollstonecraft, whose book ''A Vindication of the Rights of Women'' was published in 1792. It is one of the earliest significant works of feminist literacy. However, first-wave feminism is usually dated between the mid to late 19th century and early 1900s. During the first wave, women began to realize that they must first gain political power before they could bring about social change. This wave focused on gaining the right to vote (universal suffrage). Later, the focus shifted to include sexual, Economics and Reproductive rights concerns. During the Interwar period years, the feminist movement declined. Anti-feminism was on the rise, focusing on the issue of women and work. Women were being 'persuaded' to return to their Custom in the home and give up their war jobs. There were also issues within the organized ranks of feminism itself. The Ideology and Priority were changing. Some felt that equality with men had been reached and shifted their focus onto the needs of women as women, such as the subjects of birth control, family allowance, and protective legislature. This caused the split into the dominant groups of Equality before the law and new feminism. New feminists focused on the role of traditional women in the home and as mothers. Equality feminists encouraged women to look beyond the home and fought for equality with men in every aspect of life. Equality feminists opposed protective legislature, such as maternity leave. The topic of protective legislature eventually led to the divide of first-wave feminism. Middle class feminists tended to oppose protective legislature, whereas working class feminists largely supported it. This split between the previously dominant equality feminism and the rising new feminism marks the end of the first wave of feminism. == Second wave (1960s-1980s) == The rise of political concerns marks second-wave feminism. Where the first wave of feminism dealt with women in the workforce, as well as the right to own property and vote, the second wave of feminism lobbied for 'liberation' from a Patriarchy society. The key to second-wave feminism was the struggle over the female body itself – how it was represented and the significance attached to the reality of Biologyl differences. The famous "One is not born, but rather becomes a woman" declaration by Simone de Beauvoir led to new thinking about gender as a construction rather than something inherent. Second-wave feminism was also characterized by the problematization of equality. Questions arose about what gaining equality would achieve due to the societal roles men and women were still expected to fill. This led to the call for extreme change to revolutionize the very fabric of a patriarchal society. This was the beginning of the radical, Marxism, and Socialism feminist groupings. It also marked a shift in the politics of liberal feminism, focusing more on 'sexual politics', such as the family, abortion, rape, domestic violence, and Human sexuality. == Third wave (1990s – present) == Third-wave feminism is generally described as the feminism of a younger generation who acknowledge both the effect and the limitations of the Ideology presented by second-wave feminism. This new generation argues that the conditions that prompted second-wave feminism no longer exist, and, therefore, feminism needs to change. It also argues that second-wave feminism catered too much to a small group of people, namely White people, Middle class, Heterosexuality women. Third-wave feminists seem to have grown up with feminism as a strong societal concept, influencing them from a young age. It is taught in schools and prominent in the Mass media. Third-wave feminists largely focus on issues surrounding individual self-expression. This includes how Identity politics is formed and communicated through things such as appearance, sexuality, and intersectionality. Third wave feminism recognized women from different Culture, religions, sexualities, Ethnic group, and abilities. == Fourth wave (approx. 2008 – present) == Some say that a fourth wave of feminism is already upon us, prompted by increased internet culture. This wave is similar to the third wave but distinguished by more advanced technology and broader ideas of equality. It stands more in solidarity with other social justice movements. Fourth wave feminism uses the internet and its "call-out" culture to challenge misogyny and sexism in popular media such as television, literature, advertising, etc. This has caused Company to change how they Marketing to women to avoid being "called out." Another part of fourth-wave feminism is the existence of people who reject the word ''feminism'' because of "assumptions of gender binary and exclusionary subtext: 'For women only.'" Pacific University|website=www.pacificu.edu|date=25 October 2015|language=en|accessdate=2017-04-01|archive-date=2015-11-19|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151119073645/http://www.pacificu.edu/about-us/news-events/four-waves-feminism|url-status=live}} In the 21st century, online communities and support groups focused on masculinism discourse as a counterpart to the online presence of feminism, which is known as manosphere.Mahoney, Neve. "Men's rights activists need to take a chill pill." Eureka Street 26.21 (2016): 27 Masculinism fueled by primordialist ideologies have also resulted into an openly anti-feminist toxic culture known as "Involuntary celibacy" (involuntarily celibate). == Women in politics == There have been women who have been involved in politics throughout history. === Historical === Esther, Lady Godiva, Boudica, Elizabeth I of England, Lucrezia Borgia, Catherine the Great, Joan of Arc. === Modern times === Starting in 1960, many women have been elected to high positions of power, such as prime minister. Sirimavo Bandaranaike was the first, followed by Indira Gandhi, Golda Meir, Elisabeth Domitien and Margaret Thatcher. Dame Eugenia Charles lasted nearly 15 years in the post, a record. == Types of feminism/feminist theories == === Liberal feminism === Liberalism feminism drew its strength from the diversity of liberal thought following the Age of Enlightenment. The basis of liberal feminism is the emphasis on the power of the individual. If everyone individually stands up for what is right, Discrimination practices will change. Liberals challenge societal norms. Liberal feminists acknowledge and support individual choices and preferences that are considered as 'traditional' gender placements (such as the home and the workplace) if they are a voluntary choice without coercion. === Socialist or Marxist feminism === Socialist or Marxist feminism are similar cause their ''feministo'' (female-centered manifesto) is "revolution is the answer to change." They both link social conditions with capitalism and believe that overthrowing the current system is the only way to get what you want. Like liberal feminists, socialist or Marxist feminists acknowledge that men are necessary as part of the movement for change. Whatever the theory, socialist and Marxist countries have never had women in major government posts. Women have often achieved ministerial positions in Democracy. Rhetoric (what regimes say) does not always line up with what regimes do in practice. === Radical feminism === File:Feminism symbol.svg Radical feminism, particularly in the US, developed from civil rights and new left. Radical feminists were largely fed up with the male-dominated left-wing radicalism and formed the Women's liberation movement. This was formed to create woman-centered politics and to escape from male-oriented politics. They believed this could only be done in a safe women-only space, and this led to the policy of separatism for which radical feminism is best known. Radical feminists are often misunderstood and seen as "man-hating" because of the way their women-oriented politics seem to reject male input. === Evangelical feminism === Evangelicalisml feminism or 'Christian feminism' was developed from Religion. Evangelical feminists work to protect and Spirituality reform those who need it, such as women and children from outside the church. These feminists believe that everyone is equal under one God and strive to bring that equality to the church and their individual lives. === Equality feminism === Equality feminism is a subsection of the feminist movement. Equality feminism's focus on the similarities between the sexes is on the basis that men's and women's abilities are indistinguishable from their biology. This type of feminism encourages women to look beyond the home. Its ultimate goal is for the sexes to be equal in every part of life. === New feminism === New feminism is a philosophy similar to equality feminism. It focuses on how the differences between men and women complement each other, rather than one sex's biology causing a superiority over the other. New feminism, unlike equality feminism, recognizes the different strengths and roles given to men and women. New feminism advocates for equality in how men and women are treated in their roles in society. Its basic concept is the emphasis placed on important differences being biological rather than Culture. Women should be supported as child bearers, both economically and culturally, but this should not be a role that is forced upon them. The main aim is to emphasize the importance of women and men as individuals and that in all senses (legal, social, economic), they should be equal despite their natural differences. === Global feminist thought === Global Feminist Thought is primarily the movement for women's rights on a global scale. Women are impacted in different communities around the world and have common problems they face on a day-to-day basis, usually at home or in the workforce. Although different cultural locations have different experiences that will shape their experiences and perceptions, they have common themes. Global feminists tend to focus on nationality. They reach out to help those in Developing country and Third World countries, as well as address oppression created through histories of colonialism and imperialism. It works to end capitalism, imperialism, sexism, and racism, along with having everyone considered equal on a global view. It encourages feminists to confront their problems and seek help, as they are not the only ones experiencing that problem. === Lean-In Feminism === Lean-In Feminism is an approach where women act and behave in a toxic manner and Justified their actions by messaging if a man behaved the same way they did, he wouldn't get called out on it. Elizabeth Holmes, founder of Theranos; Ellen DeGeneres of Ellen DeGeneres Show; Amy Klobuchar, American senator; Chelsea Handler, American comedian; Zoe Sugg, YouTube vlogger etc. are considered to be prime examples. This is a negative idea of empowerment seen in social movements that posits women in power are unimpeachable and immune to feminist critique simply because they have achieved such high positions. It is hard to distinguish people of this approach from supportive feminists because they often cloak themselves with publicity stunts of advocating for all women to maintain their hegemony within a kyriarchal system. === Anti-feminism === Writers such as Camille Paglia, Christina Hoff Sommers, Jean Bethke Elshtain, Elizabeth Fox-Genovese and Daphne Patai oppose some forms of feminism, though they identify as feminists. They argue that feminism often promotes misandry (hatred of men) and the elevation of women's interests above men's and criticize radical feminist positions as harmful to both men and women. Daphne Patai and Noretta Koertge argue that the term "anti-feminist" is used to silence academic debate about defects of feminism like lack of intersectionality and visible separatism. === Poststructural Feminism === It's a branch of feminism that rejects language and cultural practices used to define body and gender. They accept a person's identity with the openness of accepting the identity chosen by the individual or reflexively as not-yet-known nor necessarily knowable. They are anti-essentialists and reject tenets made by liberal feminists who make truth claims about who is a "real" women. == Criticism == Identified reasons why some people do not like feminism: * People do not like feminism because they think that women are already equal or more important in the eyes of law. Philoandrists often say that society, in general, is not equal for men and a version of that is what women experience. Critics say basic tenets like equity and equality in outcome (egalitarian humanism) are a striving factor among men as it is with women. * Binary thinking with wrong attributions is considered a factor. Some examples are women not being regarded as equal to men based on biological differences, the antithetical divide between women of different races (e.g., white vs. women of color), dismissing the existence of ableism (Privilege theory) among men as among women (e.g., Angela Merkel, Melinda French Gates, Oprah Winfrey, Tarja Halonen, etc.), and viewing women as inherently weak and needing empowerment, etc. These are reinforced in social domains, such as the treatment and role of women in the military, denial of ordination of women in churches (Ephesians 5:21), and partisan policies rooted in history. * Some people consider feminism to deny strength exhibited by females through maternal and care aspects or discourage these aspects by terming them closely to weakness or slavery. * Some theorists consider that conscious and unconscious bias is rampant within human beings (Unconscious bias training); such a state of oppression is common, and an understanding to halt them in destructive forms is what equality should be about. * Some people say feminism, from its supportive nature, is distorted and used for Propagandas like heterosexuality is confinement and distinct female sexuality is liberated only through celibacy, autoeroticism, or lesbianism. == Related pages == * Marie Stopes * Valerie Solanas * Sexism * A Vindication of the Rights of Woman * Abortion * Gender equality * Lesbian * Sexual harassment * Prostitution * Women's rights * Black feminism * Fat feminism * Marche mondiale des Femmes * Women's liberation movement * One Billion Rising * Women Democratic Front ==References== Category:Political movements Category:Feminism Category:Women's rights
