From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Confucianism
File:Confucius 02.png '''Confucianism''' is the philosophy based on the teachings of Confucius (551 BC - 479 BC), who was an important China philosopher. Confucianism has a complete system of Morality, social, political, and religious thought, and has had a large influence on the history of China. Some people think Confucianism should be called a religion but others do not agree. Confucianism was made to stop the fall of former Chinese society. After the Zhou Dynasty fell, people cared only for themselves and did not have any respect for others. This created a situation lacking peace and social order. Confucianism became a social order for China, teaching that social relationships are the most important. People slowly started to believe in it, because they wanted to have peace, but they had to care for themselves too. As a result, Confucianism brought the people love, harmony, and respect for one another. Confucianism was started in Ch'u-fu, Confucius's birthplace. Today, Confucianism has spread around the world, but it is still more important in China. The teachings of Confucius focus largely on the respect of one's parents, elders, and ancestors. He also taught that humans 'can never stop learning'; meaning that knowledge is infinite, therefore we will always learn, never stopping. For example, he once asked a seven-year-old child to be his teacher, because the child knew something that he did not. == Confucianism Beliefs and Teachings == Confucianism is mainly built on the idea of etiquette and building good relations within a community. Confucius, founder of Confucianism, taught that harmony was a fundamental aspect of the world, and viewed God (Tian) as not the personal maker of the universe, but as the governing order and regularity of the universe, and that people should regularly engage in ritual dedicated to God in order ground oneself and the community with the divine. The Three Fundamental Bonds and Five Constant Virtues: are the bases of morality. Bonds: * Father and son * Lord and retainer * Husband and wife Virtues: * Ren (Jen), altruism and humanity. * Yi, righteousness. * Li, good conduct. * Zhi, knowledge. * Xin, loyalty. Chinese culture that exists today has its roots in Confucianism. Confucius believed that families are the building blocks of a society, which is why he laid emphasis on Filial Piety, which is known as ''xiào'' (孝) in Chinese. Filial Piety means loyalty towards one's family. A Filial son is expected to take care of his parents and go to any extent to make their wishes come true. Confucians venerate their ancestors in the form of ritual dedicated to statues or representations of them. Confucianism advocates for people to strive for achieving the title of a Junzi, or "gentleman". The Confucian Junzi acts as a leader to the community, has the ability to see beyond himself and works in the interest of the whole rather than himself, works towards gradual, rather than immediate, goals, and is loyal and humble. I Ching divination is regularly practiced in the realm of Confucianism, as the book of I Ching is part of the Confucian Four Books and Five Classics. The book, ''Analects'', describes the teachings of Confucius and was written by his disciples. ==Related pages== * Ogyū Sorai ==References== Category:Confucianism Category:History of China Category:Religion in China
