From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Monica Lewinsky
File:Monica lewinsky.jpg File:Monica Lewinsky.jpg '''Monica Samille Lewinsky''' (born July 23, 1973 in San Francisco) is an Americans fashion designer, television personality, and anti-bullying activist. In 1998, she became well known for being part of a scandal between her and then President of the United States of the United States, Bill Clinton. The scandal involved claims that she had had a sexual relationship with President Clinton. He said they had not. In the end Clinton had to admit that sexual activity of some kind took place between them. Lewinsky is of Jewish descent.[http://www.cnn.com/ALLPOLITICS/1998/08/06/lewinsky.profile/ www.cnn.com] She grew up in a luxury United States dollar1.6 million home in Beverly Hills, California. She is the daughter of Bernard Lewinsky, a medical researcher and photographer. She worked in the mid-1990s as an intern at the White House and the Pentagon. Lewinsky experimented with designing handbags and purses for her company, "The Real Monica". On December 14, 2006, Lewinsky graduated with a Master of Science degree in Social psychology from the London School of Economics. Lewinsky's thesis is titled "In Search of the Impartial Juror: An exploration of the third person effect and pre-trial publicity". According to her publicist Barbara Hutson, Lewinsky was interviewing for jobs in the United Kingdom in early 2007. In 2009, scholar Ken Gormley (academic) had communications with Lewinsky as a part of his in-depth study of the Clinton scandals. She said that Clinton had lied under oath when asked detailed and specific questions about his relationship with her. In the 2010s, Lewinsky became an Activism against cyberbullying, and gave a TED (conference) about it. BuzzFeed called her the Queen of Twitter. == References == == Other websites == * Category:1973 births Category:Living people Category:American activists Category:American fashion designers Category:Bill Clinton Category:Jewish activists Category:Jewish American entertainers Category:People from Beverly Hills, California Category:Writers from San Francisco Category:Writers from Los Angeles Category:Television personalities from California
