From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Sun Tzu
::''This article is about the military strategist Sun Tzu. For the mathematician of the same name, see Sun Tzu (mathematician).'' File:Enchoen27n3200.jpg, in Japan]] '''Sun Tzu''' (544 BC – 496 BC) also called '''Sun Wu''', was an Ancient China General officer, military wikt:expert, and philosopher. He is widely believed to have been the writer of the most important work of military strategy and theory, ''The Art of War''. His name means "Master Sun". His family name is Sun, Tzu is an honorific (title of respect) meaning "master." Most of what is known about Sun Tzu comes from Ssu-ma Ch'ien's ''Shih chi'', also called the ''Records of the Grand Historian''. According to Ssu-ma, Sun Tzu lived during the era called the Spring and Autumn Period of China (770 to 476 Anno Domini). == Life == Sun Tzu was born in the State of Qi (now Shandong Province).Dorothy Perkins, ''Encyclopedia of China: History and Culture'' (Ambigndon, OX; New York: Routledge, 2013), p. 496 This is according to the Records of the Grand Historians. However, the ''Spring and Autumn Annals of Wu and Yueh'' claim he was born in Wu. Sun Tzu lived during the turbulent period of the late Zhou Dynasty. He grew up in a military family and he studied military science. Not much is known about his childhood or early life. It is known that at some point in his life he became known as a great general and a military strategist. He became a general for King Helü of Wu. Sun Tzu won battles by not actually fighting his enemy if it was unnecessary. He recommended Spy, wikt:deceive and a commander having complete control of his soldiers. When he fought, he understood warfare better than most of his wikt:opponents. Sun Tzu learned to win battles with the least loss of his own men. }} Many historians think that the Battle of Boju in 506 BC was victor. The great historian Sima Qian (145/135–86 BC), writer of ''Shiji'' (Historical Record), called Sun Tzu an exceptional strategic battlefield commander.''China’s Many Dreams: Comparative Perspectives on China’s Search for National Rejuvenation'', ed. David Kerr (New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2015), p. 208 He also said Sun Tzu was both flexible and had unlimited surprises for his enemies. Sima Qian wrote that in his nearly 40 years as a general, Sun Tzu never lost a battle, a campaign or a war. == ''The Art of War'' == ''The Art of War'' was one of the earliest books on Chinese warfare. It remains one of the best known and most influential books ever written. The book was widely copied in the ancient world. An early copy was discovered in 1972. It was written on bamboo slats that were Sewing together. It became known in the Western world during the late 18th century. It was translated to English language only in the 20th century. At that time the rules for warfare were based on chivalry. War was the sport of rich noblemen. Sun Tzu refused to see war as a sport. He used Taoist principles and applied them to warfare. In doing so, he changed the rules of war. Unlike generals who enjoyed long campaigns, he understood that war is serious. Sun Tzu believed that once a war started, the Task was to defeat the enemy. Sun Tzu was wikt:unconventional in that he did not follow the prevailing wisdom of his time. Other generals were simply unprepared for Sun Tzu's wikt:tactics. }} == Legacy == For at least the last 2000 years, Sun Tzu has had a tremendous influence on military thinking. Ho Chi Minh was a fan of Sun Tzu. He led the Communist Vietnamese in their fight against United States-backed South Vietnam. The American generals Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr. and Colin Powell followed Sun Tzu's principles during the Gulf War. == References == Category:544 BC births Category:496 BC deaths Category:Sun Tzu Category:Chinese generals Category:Chinese philosophers Category:6th-century BC Chinese people
