From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Hermione Granger
'''Hermione Jean Granger''' (born September 19, 1979) is a fictional character from the ''Harry Potter'' series. She met Harry Potter (character) and Ron Weasley for the first time on the Hogwarts Express. She is referred to as the smartest witch of her age. In the Harry Potter movies, the character is played by Emma Watson. == Character == Hermione is one of Harry Potter (character) best friends. She knows almost everything in the magical world. She spends a lot of time with Harry and Ron Weasley. Her parents are Muggles (not magical), but she is the smartest witch of her class. She was born on September 19, 1979. When she arrived at Hogwarts for the first time, she was almost 12. Because she was born after September 1, she has to wait another year. Her parents are dentists. She is intelligent and her special skill is the ability to remember all that she has read. Because of this, Hermione is successful in her tests. Although she is smart, she also is brave and has street smarts. She cares about house elves. She made the club S.P.E.W., the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, which Ron mockingly calls "Spew." She made scarfs and garments to free the elves from the slavery of the wizards. But none of the elves took the garments and Dobby (the old house elf of the Malfoy family) gathered them. She is one of the prefects of Gryffindor with Ron. She has bushy brown hair, dark brown eyes, and huge front teeth, which Draco Malfoy enlarged in her fourth year. It is also noted at the end of ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows'' that she marries Ron, and they have two children together called Hugo Granger-Weasley and Rose Granger-Weasley. In ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire'' she was the dance partner of Viktor Krum. She belongs to Gryffindor house, which is known for bravery. The Sorting Hat thought about putting her in Hogwarts, which is known for wisdom, but finally it put her in Gryffindor. Hermione has a pet cat named Crookshanks. In the first book, Hermione had the personality of a snob and a geek, and she is not very friendly. With time she improves that. Hermione was teased as a Mudblood (a witch or wizard born with no magical parents, also known as an offensive insult to Muggle-born witch or wizard) by many Slytherins, especially Draco Malfoy. Her name refers to ''The Winter's Tale'' by William Shakespeare. ==References== Category:Fictional characters introduced in 1997 Category:Harry Potter characters
