From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Pablo Picasso
| birth_date = | birth_place = Málaga, Spain | death_date = | death_place = Mougins, France | resting_place = Château of Vauvenargues }} File:Pablo picasso 1.jpg '''Pablo Picasso''' (full name: Pablo Diego José Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno María de los Remedios Cipriano de la Santísima Trinidad Ruiz y Picasso, October 25, 1881 – April 8, 1973) was a Spanish people painter and sculptor.His full name is''Pablo Diego José Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno María de los Remedios Cipriano de la Santísima Trinidad Clito Ruiz y Picasso''. He created over 20,000 works of art. He was 91 when he died. He is considered one of the greatest artists of the 20th century. He co-founded the style of art called cubism. In cubist art, the artist breaks objects into pieces and reassembles them in abstract and geometric form. Picasso could draw and paint when he was very young. His first word was "''lápiz''", the Spanish word for "pencil". Perhaps his most famous painting is ''Guernica (painting)'', which shows the horrors of war after the bombing of the town of Guernica (town). He spent most of his life in France when he was an adult. He was 90 years old when the Louvre in Paris showed many of his works. He was the first living artist to have an exhibition at the Louvre. Picasso had four children with three women. He died of heart failure in Mougins, France, on April 8 1973. == Childhood == Pablo Picasso was born on October 25, 1881 in Malaga, Spain. His father was a painter and teacher José Ruiz Blasco and his mother was María Picasso López. Until 1898, he signed his pictures with the names of his father and of his mother. After around 1901, he only used his mother's name. At the age of eight, Picasso created his first oil painting called "The Picador". In 1891, Pablo moved with his family to Northern Spain, where his father taught at the ''Instituto da Guarda''. One year later, Pablo studied at this wikt:institute. Pablo's father was his teacher at this time. In 1896, he started to attend the art school in Barcelona after passing the exam. One year later in 1897, Picasso started to study at the ''Academia San Fernando'' in Madrid. In 1898, he left the academy and went to a rest to Horta de Ebro. In 1900, he published his first illustrations in a newspaper in Barcelona. This wikt:exhibition had over 60 portraits. == Beginning of career == Picasso first travelled to Paris in 1900. In Paris, he lived with Max Jacob, a poet and journalist. When Max was working during the day, Pablo slept and when Max slept at night, Pablo worked. ''Lovers in the Street'' and ''Moulin de la Galette'' are examples of his Paris work from this time. Both pictures were painted in 1900. He went back to Madrid in 1901 where he worked for a newspaper called ''Arte Joven''. He was responsible for illustrations. At this time, he shortened his signature from "Pablo Ruiz y Picasso" to "Picasso". This is the time his so-called ''Blue Period'' started. The two 1903 paintings, ''The Soup'' and ''Crouching Woman,'' are examples. His ''Blue Period'' ended in 1904 when he settled in Paris. In 1905, Picasso made a trip to Holland. In the same year, Pablo's "Rosa Period" started. During this period, Picasso mostly painted circus performers. ''Girl Balancing on a Ball'' and ''The Actor'' are two early paintings from this time. This period lasted until 1907. Picasso's Cubism period started in 1909 and ended around 1912. This period was inspired by the French people painter Paul Cézanne. This period is called ''Cubism'' because of the use of cubes and other shapes. During this time, Picasso painted musical instruments, still life objects, and also his friends. Picasso had his first exhibition in the USA in 1911. One year later in 1912, he had his first exhibition in Great Britain. Pablo's father died in May 1913. == During the First World War == From 1912 to 1919 was Picasso's so called ''Synthetic Cubism Period''. During this time, he started to use collages in his paintings. His works from this time are called ''papiers collés''. He spent his time during the World War I in Rome. In 1914, Picasso spent the whole summer in Avignon. In 1915, he started to paint realism again. At the end of 1915, his wife Eva died. During the World War, he also worked as a designer for Sergey Diaghilev. In 1917, Picasso met Olga Koklova, a Russian dancer. In the same year, he painted several realistic portraits of her and their friends. One year later, he married her. The last summer of the wartime, Picasso and his wife spent in Barcelona and Biarritz. == After the First World War == File:GuernicaGernikara.jpg In 1921, Picasso's son Paul was born. After this, he painted several paintings with his wife and his son. Paul was Picasso's only legitimate son (only son born to a woman he had married). In 1925, his art was in the first Surrealism exhibition in Paris. Between 1924 and 1926, Picasso preferred to paint abstract still life. In 1927, he met Marie-Thérèse Walter. She became his model and mistress. In 1928, he began to make sculptural works. In 1931, he left his wife and moved with his mistress to Boisgeloup. There they lived in a country home. There, Picasso had a room for his sculptures only. Since 1932, he used Marie-Thérèse as a model. During a travel in Spain, he started to paint bullfights. In 1935, Picasso's daughter, Maïa, was born. At this time, he got divorced from his wife because of the birth of Maïa. In 1936, Picasso got a job as Board of directors of the Prado-Museum in Madrid. During this time, the Spanish Civil War started. German bombs fell on Guernica (town) in Spain on 6 April 1937. Picasso used this impact to paint one of his most famous paintings, ''Guernica (painting)''. This painting was completed in about 8 months. It was first shown in the Spanish Pavilion in Paris in 1937. == During the Second World War == In 1938, Picasso's mother died. When the Second World War started on the 1st of September 1939, Picasso returned to Paris. Around 1943, he met the painter Françoise Gilot. She bore him one son and one daughter. In 1941, he wrote his first play "Le désir attrapé par la queue" (English language ''Desire Caught by the Tail''). It was first shown in 1944. Also in 1944, Picasso joined the communist Party. Picasso spent almost the full war time in Paris. :) ==After the Second World War== After the liberation of Paris, Picasso resumed exhibiting his work, notably at the Salon d’Automne of 1944 (“Salon de la Libération”), where his canvases of the preceding five years were received as a shock. That plus the announcement that Picasso had just joined the Communist Party led to demonstrations against his political views in the gallery itself. At the same time, Picasso opened up his studio to both new and old writer and artist friends, including Jean-Paul Sartre, Pierre Reverdy, Éluard, the photographer Brassaï, the English artist Roland Penrose, and the American photographer Lee Miller, as well as many American GIs. == Death == On 28 April 1973, Pablo Picasso died due to heart failure at the age of 91 years in Mougins. ==List (some of his works)== *Guernica (painting) *Woman with a Watch (original title, Femme a la montre)https://www.bbc.com/news/entertainment-arts-67364579. Retrieved 2023-11-06 == Related pages == *List of Spanish painters == References == Category:1881 births Category:1973 deaths Category:Deaths from heart failure Category:People from Malaga Category:Spanish painters Category:Spanish sculptors Category:Former Roman Catholics Category:20th-century painters Category:19th-century artists
