From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Satan
File:Satan before the Lord.jpg"]] '''Ha-Satan''' (meaning "the Devil" in Hebrew language) is a figure found in the writings of the Abrahamic religions. Islam, Christianity and Judaism believe that he tempts people to do bad things. His role is to question and tempt people's faith. Christians also say that he was once an angel named Lucifer. Some Muslims on the other hand believe, he was once an angel called Azazel. In Satanism, Satan is thought to be just a metaphor for what humans want. In Theism Satanism, Satan is considered to be a good force.File:Codex_Gigas_Devil.png == Book of Enoch == The Book of Enoch is not part of the Bible but seems to have been popular among many early Christians and Jews during the lifetime of Jesus. The fallen angels according to this book did not try to become equal to El, but wanted to live among humans. They revealed the secrets of heaven, which leads people to war and sin. Satan, however, is not one of the fallen angels in this Book, but punishes the fallen angels (and wicked humans) for their sins. This might be the reason why many Christians think that Satan will also punish the sinners in hell, even if this book is not part of the Bible. Not in the Quran either, but known in Muslim legends, Satan is said to have been sent by El to punish the genies. == Christianity == In the Bible, which consists of both Hebrew scriptures from Judaism (Old Testament) and the New Testament about Jesus and his followers, Satan is often mentioned. In the Old Testament, there is the Book of Job, in which Satan makes a bet with El, whether he can make Job turn against El or not. In the New Testament, he is the main opponent of Jesus. According to Christianity, Satan tried to become a deity himself and was banished from heaven for his attempt. This derives from parts of the Bible, in which a ''star'' is said to try to make himself equal to El. This star is called ''Lucifer'' and interpreted as Satan. Some Christians make a distinction between Satan and Lucifer. In this case, Satan is Lucifers' general. Satan would serve Lucifer on earth, because Lucifer is chained in the underworld. ===In the Bible=== File:Baphome1.JPG is often used as a symbol of Satan, especially in Satanism]] *In the Hebrew Bible (also called the Old Testament in Christianity), Satan is responsible for several acts opposite to El's way; these are some examples: **Thought to be the one who talked Adam and Eve into eating the forbidden fruit (though his name is not used) **El let Satan make Book of Job suffer **Caused King David to go against El's wishes and count the people of Israel **Accused El's servant Joshua, the high priest *In the New Testament: **Jesus was led into the desert by the Holy Spirit to fasting, and to be tested by the devil. Satan tempted Jesus three times. Jesus stood against him by using the Hebrew Bibles. **Book of Revelation tells of a final battle between El and Satan, with El winning over the Influences of evil Many people believe that Satan was first an angel called Lucifer that left Heaven and took many other angels with him. He did this because he thought he was as powerful as El. ==In the Quran== In Islam, a ''shayṭān'' is any sort of devil. Satan is named "Iblis". The Qu'ran describes Satan as arrogant. The story about him begins in surah Baqarah. It states that Satan views himself as a greater entity than the Creation myth of El, who is named "Allah", because he was created from fire. After this, the Qu'ran states: :: El said: "What prevented thee from prostrating when I commanded thee?" He said: "I am better than he: Thou didst create me from fire, and him from clay. ==In the Bahá'í Faith== In the Bahá'í Faith, ''Satan'' is not regarded as an independent evil power as he is in some faiths and religions, but rather signifies the ''lower nature'' of humans. `Abdu'l-Bahá explains: "This lower nature in man is symbolized as Satan — the evil ego within us, not an evil personality outside." All other evil spirits described in various faith traditions—such as Fallen angel, Demon, and Jinn—are also Metaphor for the base character traits a human being may acquire and manifest when he turns away from El. Actions, that are described as "satanic" in some Bahá'í writings, denote humans deeds caused by selfish desires. ==In Popular culture== *Washington Irving wrote "The Devil and Talk walker" About a man who sells his soul to the devil for trasure *Stephen Vincent Benet wrote "The Devil and Daniel WEbster" about Daniel WEbster trying to save the soul of a fellow New ahampshireman from a pact with the devil *In Treehouse of Horror IV of ''The Simpsons'' in "The Devil and Homer Simpson", Homer Simpson announces he would sell his soul for a doughnut, and the devil, who resembles Ned Flanders, appears to make a deal with Homer. Homer tries to outsmart the devil by not finishing the doughnut, but eventually eats it and is sent to Hell; there he is "tormented" by being forced to eat thousands of doughnuts, an ironic punishment that backfires when he gleefully eats them without any sign of pain. A trial is held between Homer and the devil to determine the rightful owner of Homer's soul. (The Jury consists of Blackbeard the Pirate; John Dillinger the Philadelphia Flyers hockey team and Richard Nixon; Homer is defended by the incompent Lionel Hutz); Marge Simpson saves Homer's soul when she reveals that Homer gave her ownership of it (After he had to go to the hospital because he ate their entire wedding cake), meaning that it was not in his possession when the deal was made. However the Devil turns Homers head into a "Live" doughnut; while outside the Springfield Police force is waiting for Homer to come outside with cups of coffe! (Two outakes from this epsiode show Homer's head used as a bowling ball in hell while the Devil temps Bart Simpson to sell his own soul in return for a Ferrari Racing car) * In an episode of the 1960s TV series ''The Monkees (TV series)'', this story was also presented in "List of The Monkees episodes##Season 2 (1967–1968)", wherein Peter finds a beautiful harp in a pawn shop run by Mr. Zero and says that he would give anything for it. Mr. Zero then has Peter sign a contract which condemns him by promising his soul to Mr. Zero. The boys become an overnight success after adding the harp to their act. They learn what has happened when Mr. Zero comes to collect Peter's soul and Mike argues that they will take it to court to fight the contract. The jury consists of 12 condemned men from Devil's Island and Judge Roy Bean, the hanging judge, presides over the trial. After Atilla the Hun, Billy the Kid, and Blackbeard all testify to what Mr. Zero has done for their careers, Mike calls Mr. Zero to the stand and tells him that he did not give Peter the ability to play the harp and that it was within Peter the whole time due to his love for the harp. He then convinces Peter to prove it to Mr. Zero and everyone in the courtroom by playing the harp after Mr. Zero takes away the power. Peter then plays a rendition of the Monkees' song "I Wanna Be Free (The Monkees song)"; he is found not guilty and the case is dismissed. Peter is set free and Mr. Zero snaps his fingers and returns to Hell. * Canadian studio Nelvana created an animated TV special called ''The Devil and Daniel Mouse'' based on the story. In the program, Daniel Mouse is a musician whose partner, Jan, sells her soul to the devil in exchange for fame. *Actor Ted Wass starred as Bobby Shelton (who trades his soul — and his family — to become an ill-fated rock star "Billy Wayne") in the black comedy film Oh, God! You Devil (1984) * Two Chick Publications tracts, ''The Contract!''Chick, J.T. (2004). ''[http://www.chick.com/reading/tracts/0078/0078_01.asp The Contract!]'', Chick.com and ''It's A Deal'',Chick, J.T. (2009). ''[http://www.chick.com/reading/tracts/1109/1109_01.asp It's a Deal]'', Chick.com borrow heavily from the story. ''The Contract!'' follows the original plot more closely (telling of a bankrupt farmer facing eviction), while ''It's a Deal'' features a young basketball player. In both stories, the soul-seller is saved not through a legal trial, but by accepting Christ as his saviour, since Christ has the power to Salvation in Christianity regardless of a contract. * In his court order rejecting plaintiff's motion to proceed ''in forma pauperis'' in the lawsuit ''United States ex rel. Gerald Mayo v. Satan and His Staff'', 54 F.R.D. 282 (1971), United States federal judge Gerald J. Weber cited this story as the sole, though "unofficial", precedent touching on the jurisdiction of U.S. courts over Satan. ==References == Category:Angels Category:Demons Category:Satanism
