From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Personal computer
File:Computer home station.jpg.|240x240px]] File:Global Digital Divide1.png A '''personal computer''' ('''PC''') is the common name for a type of computer that is most popular in offices and homes. The first PC called the "IBM PC" was made by the company called IBM in 1981, although many computers were made before like the Commodore PET. Smartphones and tablet computers are also computers for personal use, but they are not often called "personal computers". == Operating Systems == Today, most PCs usually have a basic set of software called an operating system. The operating system is responsible for several tasks including providing a user interface (UI). The most popular operating system on PCs is Microsoft Windows, sold by Microsoft. The first PCs usually had their operating system on a floppy disk. On x86 PCs, this was often MS-DOS. PCs made by a company called Apple Inc. use a different system of software called Mac OS that is also made by Apple Inc. Many free operating systems are available. Some are called Linux operating systems. There are over 300 different Linux "distributions". Each one has a different purpose/feel. Ubuntu Linux is the most-used Linux distribution. Various other operating systems are available, many of which are based on Unix. == Parts of a personal computer == A modern PC has a minimum set of parts to be useful. The "base unit" or "tower" (case) houses the computer parts. Usually, a Computer mouse and Keyboard (computer) are used for input device, however some operating systems need only a keyboard. A computer monitor is usually needed to view output device. In a laptop computer these parts are all together. Inside the base unit or tower there are many electronic parts. The main parts are the motherboard, CPU, memory, and a data storage device, such as a hard disk or solid-state drive. The CPU (Central Processing Unit) follows the instructions in the operating system and application Computer programs. The memory, or random access memory (random access memory), is for moving information (or data) quickly to and from the processor. The hard disk or solid-state drive hold programs and data while the computer is powered off. Floppy drives, CD-ROM drives, and USB flash drive are used for portable data storage. Computers sometimes have a Network card to send and receive data over a phone line, or more recently, over cable television lines. Computers can also be connected to a computer network using a network card. Modern PCs have various sockets called ports. The most common ports are known as USB ports. == Uses for personal computers == Computers may be used for Employment, including doing research using the internet, keeping records; or writing documents. Other uses include Communication, with people across the world using Instant messaging, e-mail or Skype or recreation activity such as playing computer games. Some PCs are designed for a specific purpose, for example gaming PCs have powerful Graphics processing unit for 3D games, whereas workstations have reliable hardware for important work that a business might depend on. Category:Computers Category:Time People of the Year
