From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Antidisestablishmentarianism
'''Antidisestablishmentarianism''' is a political position. It means "to keep an established church". An official state religion is called the "established" church, so a '''dis'''establishment'''arian''' is a person who wants to stop the state church. These people say a state church hurts the freedom of religion. These people say the state should be secularism, meaning religion and the country are separate. This idea is called disestablishmentarian'''ism. '''So '''anti'''disestablishmentarianism wants to keep the state church.Adrian Hastings, ''Church and State: the English Experience'' (Exeter: University of Exeter Press, 1991.) It is famous because it is one of the longest words in the English language. == History in England == The word comes from England in the 1800s. In England, Ireland and Wales, there was an official state religion called the Anglican Church. Ireland disestablished in 1871, and Wales disestablished in 1920. England still has the Anglican Church as the state church. In 2014 Nick Clegg, who was the leader of the Liberal Democrats at the time, said that he thought the Church of England should no longer be the established church."Nick Clegg advocates separation of Church and state".''BBC News''. BBC. 25 April 2014. Retrieved 25 April 2014. David Cameron, who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, said the establishment helps the church and state. == As a word == Antidisestablishmentarianism is one of the longest words in the English language. It has 28 letters and 12 syllable. It is considered to be the longest word, if you do not count technical terms. For example, "pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis" is a technical term for the lung disease asbestosis, made by people who wanted it to be the longest word.What is the longest English word? Oxford Dictionaries Online However, while some dictionaries, such as the Cambridge dictionary have decided to include antidisestablishmentarianism, Merriam-Webster has stated that it will not add the word to its dictionaries due to a lack of widespread use. == In pop culture == The word became famous because of a popular television show in the 1950s called ''The $64,000 Question'', where someone spelled it and won. Duke Ellington, a jazz artist, had a song called "You're Just an Old Antidisestablishmentarianismist"."ELLINGTON, Duke". ''Donald's Encyclopedia of Popular Music''. Donald's Encyclopedia of Popular Music. 2014. Retrieved 7 May 2014. Eminem, a rapper, used the word in his song "Almost Famous".Eminem (2014). "Eminem – Almost Famous Lyrics".''Rap Genius''. Genius Media Group Inc. Retrieved 7 May2014. == Construction of the word == ; ''establish'' : to set up, put in place, or institute ; ''dis-establish'' : to end the established status of something, in this case a state church ; ''disestablish-ment'' : the separation of church and state ; ''anti-disestablishment'' : do not want disestablishment ; ''antidisestablishment-ary'' : about anti-disestablishment ; ''antidisestablishmentari-an'' : someone who does not want disestablishment ; ''antidisestablishmentarian-ism'' : the movement or ideology that does not want disestablishment ==Related pages== * Secularism * State religion * The separation of church (Religion) and State * Racial religions (such as ethnic religions), Nationalism ==References== Category:Long words Category:Religion in England
