From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Inspector Gadget
'''''Inspector Gadget''''' is an animated children's television series that ran from 1983 to 1986. It was the first show produced by DiC Entertainment. On the show, Inspector Gadget is a cyborg detective and secret agent, who must stop an evil organization called "MAD", lead by Dr. Claw. He is usually helped by his niece, Penny, and his dog, Brain. Gadget has many gadgets and special devices inside his body, hence his name. He uses these when searching in a case, but he is not very smart. Yet with the help of Penny and Brain, he ends up saving the day. Elements of the Franchising pay homage to the 1960s series ''Get Smart.'' Gadget's voice was even provided by Don Adams who was the star of Get Smart. Other elements are homages to things like Inspector Clouseau from the ''Pink Panther'' movie series. In 1999, Matthew Broderick played the title character in Walt Disney Pictures's live-action adaptation. Category:1980s American animated television series Category:1980s American children's television series Category:1980s American comedy television series Category:1980s Canadian animated television series Category:1980s Canadian children's television series Category:1980s television series Category:1983 American television series debuts Category:1983 Canadian television series debuts Category:1983 television series debuts Category:1986 American television series endings Category:1986 television series endings Category:American animated television series Category:American children's television series Category:American comedy television series Category:American crime television series Category:American English-language television shows Category:American science fiction television series Category:Canadian animated television series Category:Canadian children's television series Category:First run syndicated television programs Category:French animated television series Category:French children's television series Category:French-language television programs Category:Nickelodeon television series Category:Television series by Cookie Jar Entertainment
