From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Mestizo
| rels = Predominantly Roman Catholic; religious minorities include Protestants and syncretism with Native American religion | related = Spaniards Indigenous peoples of the Americas Métis }} File:Mestizo.jpg '''''Mestizo''''' (meh-STEE-tzo), is a Spanish language term for a person who is of mixed Spaniards and Native American ancestry. Mestizos have existed since men from Spanish Empire controlled much of what is now Latin America. "Mestizo" is the masculine form; "mestiza" the feminine. Mestizos form the largest part of the population in some Latin American nations. A large minority of mestizos makes up most of the population in Mexico, the Spanish language-speaking nation with the largest population in the world. During the colonial era, many Native Americans converted to Roman Catholicism and began using Spanish instead of their traditional language. That was because of the racial hierarchy that existed in the Spanish colonies, which gave Spaniards a higher social class than Native Americans and free or enslaved Africans. That has made many Native Americans gain a better social status by calling themselves "mestizos" instead of "Indios." == Indo-Mestizo == ''Indo-Mestizo'' (also known as ''Cholo'', is a Spanish term for a person who has around three-fourths Native American and one-fourth Spaniards ancestry, It is a derogatory term used by the Spanish caste system for Racism and Racism against original Native people. It is a racial slur used that discriminates mostly against original Native people in eastern and southern Mexico, much of Northern Central America, the Pacific side of Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Colombia, and Bolivia. Indo-Mestizos usually have more Native American traits but may have either a light pigmentation with completely Native American features or a dark pigmentation with some obvious Spanish features. Famous Indo-Mestizos are Maya Zapata, George Lopez, and Danny Trejo. They are called so because of their appearance, not because of their known Genetics background. == References == Category:Native Americans Category:Spanish people Category:Ethnic groups Category:Spanish language
