From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Distillation
File:Simple chem distillation.PNG often used by chemists. Shown in use. 1. heat source (a Bunsen burner here) 2. distilling flask (a round bottom flask) 3. distilling head 4. thermometer 5. condenser 6. cooling water in 7. cooling water out 8. receiving flask collecting dripping distillate]] '''Distillation''' is a process where a mixture made of two or more liquids (called "components") with different boiling points can be separated from each other. The mixture is heated until one of the components boilings (turns to a vapor). The vapor is then fed into a Condenser (laboratory), which cools the vapor and changes it back into a liquid that is called ''distillate''. What remains in the original container is called the "residue". It is a common process in many industries. Distillation is a physical separation process and not a chemical reaction. Some chemical processes are called "distillation" for historical reasons, like dry distillation or destructive distillation. These are a type of pyrolysis. == Types == Fractional distillation uses a larger distillation column with more than one output. It is used to separate mixtures of multiple liquids. An oil refinery uses fractional distillation to purify crude oil, separating several different liquids for different uses. Air separation uses a cryogenic process to distill air. This produces pure nitrogen, oxygen, argon, and trace gases. == History == Distillation has been used for a long time. Iron Age people used distillation to make perfumes. Pepole also distill alcohol and produce alcoholic drinks such as liquor. Distillation can be done anywhere, whether it's in a house or a laboratory, but in most countries it is illegal to distill alcohol without a license. Illegally distilled alcoholic drinks are in some places called ''moonshine''. Distillation is also the main way of desalination of water. In this case the salt is a solid that is in solution with the water. In alcohol distillation or petroleum distillation, the things to be separated from their solution are two or more distillation liquids. == Gallery == File:Destillierapparat einer Apotheke.jpg|Distillation in a pharmacy, around 1900 File:UkrainianVodkaStill.jpg|A vodka still in Ukraine File:Dorf Lore - Schnaps-Destillation.jpg|Simple distillation of spirit, in East Timor ==References== Category:Laboratory techniques
