From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Waste
File:The Veolia waste disposal plant - geograph.org.uk - 3046581.jpg '''Waste''' (or '''wastes''') are unwanted or unusable materials. Waste is any substance that is discarded after primary use or is worthless, defective, and of no use.File:Vuilnis.JPG It may be no longer useful as it has served its purpose, and at the end of the process have no further use, and is generally discarded. It is unwanted material that people have thrown away. It is often also called '''trash''', ''garbage'', ''rubbish'', or '''junk'''. It can be solid, liquid, or gas, or it can be waste heat. There are many different kinds of waste. Garbage is the waste we produce daily in our homes, including old or unwanted food, chemical substances, paper, broken furniture, used containers, and other things. When waste is a liquid or gas, it can be called an toxic. This is usually pollution. Sanitation is the proper handling of human waste. Waste can also be something Abstraction (something that you cannot touch), for example, "a waste of time" or "wasted opportunities". When people use the words ''wikt: waste'' or ''wikt: wasted'' in this way, they are saying (directly or indirectly) that something has been used badly (using too much of it or using it incorrectly). == Waste management == '''Waste management''' or '''waste disposal''' is the process and actions that we take to manage waste from it start point to when we finally throw or dispose them away. This process includes collection, transport, treatment and disposal of waste, together with monitoring of the waste management process and waste related laws, technologies and economic mechanisms. Waste management deals with all types of waste, which include industrial, biological, household, municipal, organic, biomedical, radioactive wastes. Waste poses threats to human health. Health issues are linked with the entire process of waste management. Health issues can also arise indirectly or directly: directly through the handling of solid and liquid wastes, and indirectly through the consumption of water, soil, breathing, and food. The purpose of waste management is to reduce the dangerous effects of such waste on the environment and human health. A big part of waste management deals with municipal solid wasted, which is created by industrial, commercial, and household activity. Waste management are not the same across every country (developed and developing nations); regions (urban and rural areas) and residential and industrial sectors can all take different methods. People have thrown away waste in heaps for thousands of years. In modern homes and businesses, garbage is normally placed in waste containers of some sort. It is then moved to the streets, where it can be collected and taken to a place designed to hold, destroy, or Recycling garbage. Some waste materials, such as paper, wood, glass, metals, and plastic containers, can be recycled (reused). Materials that cannot be recycled are either burned (''incinerated'') or heaped into landfills. Plant matter, such as fruit and vegetable scraps, is biodegradable. It can usually be heaped into a compost, where it will decompose relatively quickly. This kind of waste is often called "wet" or "green" waste. Very often, waste is not collected in containers. It may instead be thrown onto the ground or dumped somewhere. This is called '':en:Litter''. Effective 'Waste Management' involves the practice of '7R' - 'R'efuse, 'R'educe', 'R'euse, 'R'epair, 'R'epurpose, 'R'ecycle and 'R'ecover. Amongst these '7R's, the first two ('Refuse' and 'Reduce') relates to the non-creation of waste - by refusing to buy non-essential products and by reducing consumption. The next two ('Reuse' and 'Repair') refers to increasing the usage of the existing product, with or without the substitution of certain parts of the product. 'Repurpose' and 'Recycle' involves maximum usage of the materials used in the product. And 'Recover' is the least preferred and least efficient waste management practice involving the recovery of embedded energy in the waste material. For example, burning the waste to produce heat (and electricity from heat). Certain non-bio-degradable products are also dumped away as 'Disposal', and this is not a "waste-'management'" practice. ==Related pages== * Toxic waste ==References== ==Other websites== [https://www.articlesbazar.com/2020/10/what-are-different-sources-of-waste.html A description about the different sources of waste including classification of waste.] Category:Waste Category:Basic English 850 words
