From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Sauce
File:Tzatziki IMGP1480.jpg yoghurt sauce]] File:Sauce Mornay.jpg]] File:Reggae Reggae Sauce.jpg reggae reggae sauce]] In cooking, a '''sauce''' is a liquid mixture added to another food for flavour. Sauces are not normally eaten by themselves; they add flavour, moisture, and visual appeal to another dish. Sauces are an essential element in cuisines all over the world. The main sauces of French cuisine are built on a basis of roux, which is just flour and the liquid part of butter. Examples from Italian cuisine are the egg, cheese and ham sauce called ''Carbonara''; the ground meat sauce called Bolognese sauce, and the herbs and garlic sauce called ''pesto''. Bottled sauces can be poured over food when it is served. An example would be the tomato-based sauce that is usually poured over spaghetti. Gravy is a brown sauce served with meat. ''Sauce'' is a French language word taken from the Latin ''salsus'', meaning ''salted''. Possibly the oldest sauce recorded is ''garum'', the fish sauce used by the Ancient Rome. Sauces need a liquid component, but some sauces (for example, pico de gallo or chutney) may contain more solid elements than liquid. Sauces may be used for savoury dishes or for desserts. They can be prepared and served cold, like mayonnaise, prepared cold but served lukewarm like pesto, or can be cooked like bechamel and served warm or again cooked and served cold like apple sauce. Some sauces are commercial products like Worcestershire sauce, HP sauce, soy sauce or ketchup. In French cuisine they are freshly prepared by the chef. Sauces for salads are called salad dressing. A cook who specializes in making sauces is a saucier. ==French cuisine== File:Bearnaise.JPG (''Sauce béarnaise'') made of clarified butter and egg yolks flavored with shallots, chervil and tarragon]] Sauces in French cuisine date back to the Middle Ages. There were hundreds of sauces in the culinary repertoire, and were a major defining characteristic of French cooking of the 19th and 20th centuries, until nouvelle cuisine. In the 19th century, the chef Antonin Carême classified sauces into four families, each of which was based on a '''mother sauce''' (Also called ''grandes sauces''). Carême's four mother sauces were: * Béchamel sauce, based on milk, thickened with a white roux. * Espagnole, based on brown stock (food) (usually veal), thickened with a brown roux. * Velouté sauce, based on a white stock, thickened with a blonde roux. * Allemande sauce, based on velouté sauce, is thickened with egg yolks and heavy cream. In the early 20th century, the chef Auguste Escoffier updated this classification to five mother sauces. They are: * Sauce Béchamel, Milk based sauce, thickened with a white roux. * Sauce Velouté sauce, White stock based sauce, thickened with a roux or a liaison. * Sauce Tomate sauce, Tomato based sauce, thickened with a roux. * Sauce Espagnole, Roasted veal stock based sauce, thickened with a brown roux. * Sauce Hollandaise sauce, an emulsion of egg yolk, butter and lemon juice or vinegar. Béarnaise sauce (sauce béarnaise) is a "child" of hollandaise, meaning it is a variation on the theme. A sauce which is based on one of the mother sauces is sometimes called a '''small sauce''', '''minor sauce''', or '''secondary sauce'''.http://www.recipetips.com/glossary-term/t--34435/small-sauce.asp Small sauce, definition Most sauces commonly used in classical cuisine are small sauces, or derivatives of one of the above-mentioned mother sauces. Mother sauces are not commonly served as they are; instead they are augmented with additional ingredients to make small (derivative) sauces. For example, Bechamel can be made into Mornay sauce by the addition of Gruyère (cheese) or any cheese one may like, and Espagnole becomes Bordelaise with the addition and reduction of red wine, shallots, and poached beef marrow. ==References== Category:Sauces
