From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Spaghetti
File:Spaghetti2.jpg '''Spaghetti''' is a long, string-shaped kind of pasta. The word was first used in 1824 in the work ''Li maccheroni di Napoli'' by . A single strand of spaghetti is called a , which means "short/little string" in Italian language. Spaghetti is made from wheat noodles, which are boiling in water for a short time. Spaghetti can either be served as a side dish, or as a main dish. Most commonly, a sauce is added. There are many different kinds of sauces. Simpler ones are made of butter, more complicated ones include tomatos, garlic, olive oil and various other herbs. Different varieties with mussels, fish or meat also exist. Ground parmesan cheese is often added. File:Homemade seafood pasta.jpg In Italy, the sauce is usually mixed with the spaghetti while they are being prepared. Usually, spaghetti is eaten only with a fork, or with a fork and a spoon. Sometimes, they are cut with a knife for small children. Many Italians see using a knife to eat spaghetti as bad manners, except to prepare them for small children. In the United States, there is a kind of spaghetti called "Alvaro's spaghetti" which is served with alfredo sauce. In some countries, like United States or Canada, meatballs are often in the spaghetti sauce. File:Quorn Spaghetti Bolognese.jpg.]] In China, spaghetti is often made by hand. In Italy, spaghetti is made with a machine so that large amounts can be made quickly. Italy is the biggest producer and consumer of spaghetti in the world.[https://asrtaljouf.com/ Consumer Trends Pasta Market in the EU27] Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada It is also a popular dish in Libya. Spaghetti is called by other words when it has a different thickness: "spaghettini (n. 3)" (which means "little spaghetti"), "spaghetti (n. 5)", and "spaghettoni (n. 8)" (which means "big spaghetti"). Usually, spaghetti leftovers last in a fridge for around 3 to 5 days, while spaghetti in a freezer will last more than one month. == References == Category:Italian food Category:Pasta
