From:
To:
Date:
Subject: John Knox
|birth_place = Giffordgate, Haddington, East Lothian, Scotland |death_date = 24 November 1572 (aged 58 or 59) |death_place = Edinburgh, Scotland |alma_mater = University of St. Andrews |occupation = Pastor, author, reformer }} '''John Knox''' (Circa 1510 – 24 November 1572) brought the Protestant Reformation to Scotland and was one of the founders of the Presbyterianism. Knox joined the movement to change the Catholic Church in Scotland. He Marriage twice and had five children. Knox preached until he died. A fight between Catholicism France and Protestanism England for Scotland began again because of the Reformation. Sometimes, France had more power. Other times, England had it. Knox spent many months as a ship slavery. He also spent time in exile because of his Protestant beliefs. During a trip to Scotland, Knox's preaching helped the Protestant movement. Several Protestant Nobility came together and made a group called the Lords of the Congregation. When the group had more power, they invited Knox back to Scotland to stay. In 1500 and 1561, the Scottish Parliament accepted the Reformed confession of faith made by Knox and other people. Knox argued many times with Mary, Queen of Scots. In his book ''History of the Reformation in Scotland'', he writes about his five "conversations" with the Roman Catholic queen. In one of those conversations, Mary asked Knox what right he had to wikt:rebuke the queen so directly and openly. Knox replied, "I am a worm of this earth, and yet a subject...but I am a watchman, both over the realm (land) and the Kirk [Church] of God...For that reason I am bound in conscience (it is my duty) to blow the trumpet publicly (openly)". Mary's violent life finally made even many of her Catholic supporters abandon her. She gave up the throne, which allowed Knox to pass the Reformation in Scotland and form the Presbyterian Church. ==References== ; . Until David Hay Fleming published new research in 1904, John Knox was thought to have been born in 1505. Hay Fleming's conclusion was that Knox was born between 1513 and 1515. Sources using this date include and . Ridley notes additional research supports the later date which is now generally accepted by historians. However, some recent books on more general topics still give the earlier date for his birth or a wide range of possibility; for example: Arthur. F. Kinney and David. W. Swain (eds.)(2000), ''Tudor England: an Encyclopedia,'' p. 412 (between 1505 and 1515); M. E. Wiesner-Hanks (2006), ''Early Modern Europe, 1450–1789'', Cambridge University Press, p. 170 (1505?); and Michael. A. Mullet (1989), ''Calvin'', Routledge, p. 64 (1505). }} Category:1510s births Category:1572 deaths Category:British Protestants Category:Calvinists Category:Christian theologians Category:Presbyterian ministers Category:Protestant Reformers Category:Scottish Christian clergy Category:People from East Lothian
