From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Deity
File:Tor's Fight with the Giants (Mårten Winge) - Nationalmuseum - 18253.tif'' (1872) by Mårten Eskil Winge]] File:Kobayashi Izanami and Izanagi.jpg'' (ca. 1885) by Kobayashi Eitaku, with the god Izanagi (right) and Izanami, a goddess of creation and death in Japanese mythology]] A '''deity''' is thought to be a powerful spirit that controls events and the nature of things. Deities are also called '''gods'''. A female god is often called a '''goddess'''. The adjective of deity is ‘divine’. This word comes from the Latin ''deus'' (female: ''dea''). Different religions believe in different deities. Since there are many religions in the world there are many different ideas about how many deities there are, what they are, and what they can do. Followers of many ancient religions and some modern religions believe in many deities, which is called polytheism. The two largest religions on earth, Christianity and Islam, believe in only one God, which is called monotheism. Deism is the belief that a deity exists, but that the deity does not very often change or never changes things in the universe. Pantheism is the belief that the universe is the deity, while atheism is the belief that there are no deities. In most religions, believers think deities are immortal (cannot die), and have powers far beyond human powers. == Examples == Some of the deities of different religions are: *From the Ancient Greece religion: Zeus, Apollo, Athena, Ares, Aphrodite, Poseidon, Hades, Thanatos, Dionysus, Hera, Artemis, Hephaestus, Hermes, nymph *From the Ancient Norse religion: Thor, Odin, Tyr, Frey, Freya, Baldur, Loki, Iðunn, Njord, Frigg *From the Ancient Rome religion: Jupiter (mythology), Mars (mythology), Venus (mythology), Juno (mythology), Vulcan (mythology), Pluto (mythology), Bacchus, Neptune (mythology), *From the Ancient Egyptian religion: Isis, Osiris, Horus, Thoth, Ra, Hathor, Bastet, Nut (goddess), Geb, Set (deity), Shu (Egyptian god), Apophis, *From Christianity: Jesus, Yahweh, the Holy Spirit (Considered to Christians as the three parts of one God) *From Judaism: Names of God in Judaism *From Hinduism: Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva, Krishna, Durga, Ganesha and Hinduism *From Buddhism: Deva *From Islam: Allah *From Shinto called ''kami'': Amaterasu the Sun goddess, Inari (mythology) the Fox god, Izanagi the first human, Ryuujin the Sea god, Shinigami the death gods, Susanoo the Storm god *From Aztec Mythology: Nanahuatl, Tecuciztecatl, Teotihuacan, Quetzalcoatl, Coatlicue, ==References== Category:Gods and goddesses Category:Philosophy of religion
