From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Odin
File:Odin, der Göttervater.jpg Odin (Old Norse language: ''Óðinn'') is the god of wisdom, knowledge, air, poetry, death, healing, royalty, divination, gallows, frenzy, magic and runic alphabet in Norse mythology. Son of Borr and the giantess (Jötnar) Bestla, Odin is the chief of the Æsir (all the Germanic paganism gods) and king of Asgard. He is married to the goddess Frigg, and is father to the gods Thor, Baldur, Höðr, Vidar and Váli (son of Odin). File:Georg von Rosen - Oden som vandringsman, 1886 (Odin, the Wanderer).jpg Known as the '''All-Father''', Odin is often accompanied by two ravens, Hugin and Munin, along with the wolves Geri and Freki; the god rides into battle atop an eight-legged steed, Sleipnir, and wields the mighty spear Gungnir, which was fashioned for him by the dwarves known as the Sons of Ivaldi and is said to never miss its target. A defining feature of Odin is his being one-eyed, a result of him having sacrificed an eye to drink from the Urðarbrunnr, which granted him an incomprehensible amount of knowledge of the universe. Odin himself often receives counsel from the severed head of the being Mímir, which recites secret knowledge to him. Half of the souls of those slain in battle will be guided by the Valkyries, battle maidens, to Valhalla, Odin's enormous and majestic hall: the other half go to Fólkvangr, Freyja realm. Odin was known in Old English as '''Wōden''', in Old Saxon as '''Wōdan''', and in Old High German as '''Wuotan''' or '''Wōtan''', all of which stem from the reconstructed Proto-Germanic *''wōđanaz''. The modern English weekday name Wednesday bears the god’s name. (from Old English ''Wōdnesdæg'', “Wōden’s day”). ==Family== Odin is the son of Borr and the Jötnar Bestla. He is married to the goddess Frigg, by whom he is the father of the twin gods Baldur and Höðr. With the giantesses Grid (Jotun) and Rindr, Odin has two other sons named Vidar and Váli (son of Odin). His eldest son is Thor, god of thunder, born to him by Jörð, the personification of the Earth. ==Related pics== *Saturn (mythology) - Roman mythology equivalent to Odin *Kronos - Greek equivalent to Odin == Other websites == * [http://en.citizendium.org/wiki/Odin Odin] -Citizendium Category:Norse gods and goddesses Category:Gods and goddesses of thunder
