From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Fictional character
A '''fictional character''' is a person or animal in a narrative work of fiction (such as a novel, Play (theatre), television series, or movie) Baldick (2001, 37) and Childs and Fowler (2006, 23). See also "character, 10b" in Trumble and Stevenson (2003, 381): "A person portrayed in a novel, a drama, etc; a part played by an actor". The character can be completely made up or based on a real-life person. In that case, the difference between a "fictional" and "real" character can be made. A character who is based on more than one person is called a Composite character. Coming from the ancient Greek word χαρακτήρ, the English word dates from the English Restoration,''OED'' "character" sense 17.a citing, ''inter alia'', John Dryden 1679 preface to ''Troilus and Cressida'': "The chief character or Hero in a Tragedy ... ought in prudence to be such a man, who has so much more in him of Virtue than of Vice... If Creon had been the chief character in ''Œdipus''..." although it became widely used after its appearance in ''The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling'' in 1749.Aston and Savona (1991, 34), quotation: From this, the sense of "a part played by an actor" developed.Harrison (1998, 51-2) quotation: Character, mainly when played by an actor in the theatre or movie, involves "the illusion of being a human person."Pavis (1998, 47). In literature, characters guide readers through their stories, helping them to understand plots and ponder themes. Since the end of the 18th century, the phrase "in character" has been used to describe an effective impersonation by an actor. Since the 19th century, the art of creating characters, as practiced by actors or writers, has been called characterisation. The word '''character''' can also mean "personality". We can say that someone has a "strong character" meaning a strong, confident personality. It is sometimes used as a noun in this sense: "He is a real character" (meaning someone you cannot easily forget). A '''character role''' in a play means one of the people in the play who have a particular character (personality). They contrast with the main characters of the play. For example, a pair of lovers may be the main characters of the story. The character roles who help the story might be: a wicked stepmother, a kind nurse, an old wise man, a fool, a domestic worker who is very old, a "Mary Sue" who is virtually without flaws, and so forth. These may be archetypes. == References == Category:Fictional characters
