From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Bhagavad Gita
The '''Bhagavad Gita''' is one of the holiest books of Hinduism. The '''Bhagavad Gita''' (romanized: ''bhagavad-gītā'', lit. 'The Song by God'), often referred to as the '''Gita''' (IAST: ''gītā''), is part of the ancient Hindu epic Mahabharata. It is considered to be written in the first millennium BCE. It has teachings said to be given by Krishna, who is considered a Supreme divine being. In the book (Bhagvat Gita), Krishna answers questions from Arjuna, a Pandava prince, about a human's moral duties (called dharma) regarding a broad range of philosophical and metaphysical matters. The Bhagavad Gita is set in a narrative framework of a dialogue between the Pandava prince Arjuna and his charioteer guide, Krishna. At the start of the Kurukshetra War between the Pandavas and their cousins, Kauravas, Prince Arjuna is in doubt, thinking about the violence the war will cause. Wondering if he should renounce the war, Arjuna seeks the counsel of Krishna, whose answers and their discourse constitute the Bhagavad Gita. Krishna counsels Arjuna to "fulfill his warrior duty" for the upholding of dharma. The Krishna–Arjuna dialogue covers a broad range of spiritual topics, touching upon moral and ethical dilemmas, and philosophical issues that go far beyond the war that Arjuna faces. The Gita posits the existence of an individual self (Soul) and the supreme self (Brahman) within each being. The dialogue between the prince and his charioteer has been interpreted as a metaphor for an immortal dialogue between the human self and God. The text covers the philosophy of Yoga in terms of Gyan (Knowledge) yoga, Bhakti (devotion) yoga, Karma (action) yoga, and Rāja (governance) yoga,. A key chapter is ''Sankhya Yoga'', ''The Book of Doctrines'', ''Self-Realization'', or ''The Yoga of Knowledge (and Philosophy)''. Filled with questions about the meaning and purpose of life, Prince Arjuna asks Krishna about the nature of life, Self, death, afterlife, and whether there is a deeper meaning and reality. The chapter summarizes the ideas eternal Self in each person (Soul), and the Universal-Self present in everyone (Supreme Soul), along with concept of re-birth This chapter is an overview of the remaining sixteen chapters of the Bhagavad Gita. ==References== == Other websites == * [https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/wilkins-the-bhagvat-geeta-or-dialogues-of-kreeshna-and-arjoon Bhagvat Geeta] – Dialogues of Kreeshna and Arjoon by Charles Wilkins * [https://www.myhappybirthdays.com/bhagavad-gita-quotes-by-lord-krishna/ Bhagavad Gita] Category:Hindu texts Category:2nd-century BC books
