From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Quake (video game)
:''Quake is also a short-form of the word earthquake.'' '''Mac OS''''''Sega Saturn''''''Commodore Amiga''''''Nintendo 64''''''Linux''' |genre = First-person shooter |modes = Single-player, Multiplayer video game |composer = Trent Reznor |platforms = MS-DOS, Mac OS, Sega Saturn, Nintendo 64, Amiga, Linux }} '''''Quake''''' is a first-person shooter video game that was released by id Software on July 22, 1996. It is the first game in the popular ''Quake'' series of video games. In the game, the player must fight Demon and Zombie in lots of different places. ''Quake'' was the first game that id Software released after they made ''Doom'' and ''Doom 2.'' It is a very similar game to ''Doom'', but ''Quake'' is on a new game engine and has much more advanced technology. For example, ''Quake'' lets the player look up and down, lets the player jump, it has fully 3D graphics, and has many more options for Multiplayer video game than ''Doom'' had. ''Quake'' is famous for its multiplayer, and it was one of the first games where lots of people played Multiplayer online game. ''Doom'' also had online multiplayer through a service called DWANGO, but ''Quake'' made playing online more popular than ever before. Tools like QuakeWorld and Gamespy made it very easy for players to find other people to play against over the internet. The game's music and sound effects were done by Trent Reznor and Nine Inch Nails. == Gameplay == In the single-player mode of ''Quake,'' the player has to get to the end of each level. The player will usually have to find keys or switches to open all the locked doors before they can get to the exit of a level. They will also have to fight lots of monsters that try to kill the player. There are also secret areas and secret levels that the player can find. Secret areas will usually have something that helps the player win the level, like extra health or Ammunition. The player always has two weapons: the axe and the shotgun. More weapons can be found in the levels, including the nailgun, super nailgun, super shotgun, grenade launcher, rocket launcher, and the thunderbolt. The levels are grouped together into different episodes, and each episode has a different setting. Most levels look very Gothic architecture or Middle Ages, but others look more futuristic, like science fiction. There are 6 or 7 levels in each episode, but every episode also has one secret level. There is also one level that is not inside of an episode, which is the final Boss (video gaming) level. There are four episodes in the game, and they can be finished in any order the player wants. The player can't get to the final boss without beating all four episodes, though. The game has four difficulty settings: easy, medium, hard, and nightmare. Nightmare difficulty can only be found in a secret area which is on the episode selection level. This secret area can be found in the episode 4 selection room. ==''Quake'' series games == *''Quake'' *''Quake II'' *''Quake III: Arena'' *''Quake 4'' *''Quake Champions'' Category:1996 video games Category:1990s horror video games Category:Id Software games Category:Classic Mac OS games Category:Cooperative video games Category:Dark fantasy video games Category:DOS games Category:First-person shooters Category:Linux games Category:Multiplayer and single-player video games Category:Multiplayer online games Category:Nintendo 64 games Category:Nintendo Switch games Category:PlayStation 4 games Category:PlayStation 5 games Category:Sega Saturn games Category:Video games developed in the United States Category:Windows games Category:Xbox One games Category:Xbox Series X and Series S games
