From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Bacon
File:Made20bacon.png Image:Speck-1.jpg '''Bacon''' is a type of meat that comes from pigs. It is taken from the sides, back, or Pork belly of the pig. It is often cut in thin slices, unlike other cured or smoked pork products. It is usually Frying or Grill (cooking). It can also be microwave oven. In the U.S., back bacon and smoked ham is sometimes called Canadian bacon. Bacon has lots of fat. Because bacon comes from pigs, people of some religions will not eat it. In some cultures and religions (such as Islam and Judaism), eating pork may be considered "unclean." Because of this, other varieties of bacon are also made out of Turkey (bird) or chicken instead. Turkey bacon and chicken bacon usually contain half of the fat of pork-based bacon. ==Cuts== File:RawBacon.JPG File:Bacon.JPG File:Jowl bacon.jpg The type of bacon is different depending on the cuts of pork of pork it is made of. * '''Side bacon''', sometimes called "streaky bacon", comes from the pork belly. It has long layers of fat and muscle running next to the pork rind. This is the most common form of bacon in the United States. **Pancetta is an Italy type of side bacon, sold smoked or unsmoked (''aqua''). It is generally rolled into cylinders after it is cured. Pancetta is known for having a strong flavour. * '''Back bacon''' is made of meat from the loin in the middle of the back of the pig. It is a lean meat cut, with less fat than side bacon. Most bacon in the United Kingdom and Ireland is back bacon. * '''Collar bacon''' is taken from the back of a pig near the head. * '''Cottage bacon''' is made from the lean meat from a boneless pork shoulder. It is typically tied into an oval shape. * '''Jowl bacon''' is cured and smoked pork cheeks. The inclusion of skin with a cut of bacon is called the 'bacon rind'. ==History== Salting pork belly first appeared in China. In Middle English the term bacon or bacoun meant pork in general. Before the Industrial Revolution, bacon was mostly made on local farms and in home kitchens. The world's first bacon processing plant was opened in Wiltshire in the 1770s. ==References== Category:Pork Category:Breakfast foods
