From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Cocktail
File:15-09-26-RalfR-WLC-0084.jpg cocktail, served in a cocktail glass]] File:Flaming cocktails.jpg A '''cocktail''' is a kind of mixed drink."cocktail – Definition of cocktail in English by Oxford Dictionaries". Oxford Dictionaries – English. [https://www.lexico.com/definition/cocktail] Usually, it is made with alcoholic drinks such as vodka, gin or rum. Since such spirits do not have much taste of their own (at around 40% alcohol), other ingredients are added. Common ingredients are fruits, fruit juice, sugar, crushed ice, and ice cubes. If beer is an ingredient, like in a Queen Mary (cocktail), it is called a beer cocktail. If the cocktail is served in a Bar (business) or nightclub, it often comes with a piece of fruit on top. For example, a gin and tonic could have a lemon, a Piña Colada could have a pineapple and a cherry. A popular cocktail in Cornwall UK is the McVey, 440ml of strongbow and 125ml of Malibu. Most cocktails were invented in the late 19th or early 20th centuries. People began drinking a lot of cocktails in the United States in the 1920s due to Prohibition Era. Mixologist. Volume two, The journal of the American cocktail. Brown, Jared M. Miller, Anistatia R. London: Mixellany. 2006. ISBN 978-0-9760937-1-8. Around that time, cocktails from Cuba, such as the mojito, became popular around the world. Cocktails made without alcohol are also made. Because all the ingredients give their flavor to the finished drink, a cocktail is only as good as the worst ingredient. == Common cocktails == File:Margarita.jpg File:MojitoReydelmojito.jpg File:BloodyMary.jpg There are many kinds of cocktails. They include: * A '''martini''' is the most common cocktail. It is made with gin and vermouth, and served with an olive ::There are many variations on a martini, which include a Gibson (martini with an onion instead of an olive), a Bronx (Martini plus orange juice), and an Appletini (made with apple liqueur instead of vermouth) * The '''old-fashioned''' is thought to be the first cocktail. It is made with whiskey, sugar, bitters, and soda water * A '''margarita''' is made with tequila, triple sec and lime juice. It came from Mexico, and is commonly served in Mexican cuisine. ::A '''sidecar''' is similar to a margarita, but is made with cognac instead of tequila * A '''Manhattan''' is made with rye whiskey, vermouth, and bitters ::If it is made with scotch whisky, it is called a Rob Roy * A '''mojito''' is made with rum, lime juice, sugar, water and spearmint leaves. ::A mint julip is similar to a mojito. It made with bourbon, sugar, water, and spearmint leaves. It is popular in the Southern United States, especially at the Kentucky Derby * A '''daiquiri''' is made with rum and lime juice. Like many popular cocktails, it came from Cuba. * A '''piña colada''' is an iced cocktail made with pineapple juice, coconut puree and rum. It came from Puerto Rico. * A '''bloody Mary''' is made with tomato and lemon juices, plus vodka. It is different not only because of its blood-red color, but because it is served with a pickle or celery. == References == ==Other websites== * Wikibooks:Bartending for many recipes Category:Cocktails
