From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Eel
File:Pharyngeal jaws of moray eels.svg '''Eels''' are teleost fish.Froese, Rainer, and Daniel Pauly, eds. 2009. "Anguilliformes" in FishBase. January 2009 version. [https://www.fishbase.se/Summary/OrdersSummary.php?order=Anguilliformes]McCosker, John F; Paxton J.R. & Eschmeyer W.N. (eds). 1998. Encyclopedia of Fishes. San Diego: Academic Press. pp. 86–90. ISBN 0-12-547665-5. They have long and narrow bodies like snakes. Adult eels can be as short as 10cm or as long as 3m. It depends on their species. The large eels can weigh up to 65kg. Eels have fewer fins than other fish. They do not have all the belly and chest fins. The back and anus fins are long and usually connected to the tail fin. The fins do not have spines. The shoulder bones are separate from the skull. The Scale (zoology) have smooth edges or are absent. Eels hatch from eggs. Baby (larval) eels are flat and transparent (clear). They are called ''leptocephalus'' (Greek language for "thin head"). A young eel is called an '''elver'''. For a long time people did not know where eels came from, because baby eels look very different from adults. They thought the babies were a different species. Most eels prefer to live in the shallowest parts of the ocean. They live at the bottom of the ocean, sometimes in holes. Eels in the Anguillidae family come to fresh water to live there. Eels in the Nemichthyidae family swim about 500m below the ocean surface. Eels in the Synaphobranchidae family live as deep as 4000m below the surface. Hand Fishing net (catching with nets) is the only law way of catching eels in England. It has been done for thousands of years on the River Parrett and River Severn. Most eels are predators. They hunt their prey. ==Classification== True eels belong to the order (biology) (group) '''Anguilliformes''' (Latin language for "eel-shaped"). This order has 4 suborders (smaller groups) called ''Anguilloidei'', ''Nemichthyoidei'', ''Congroidei'', and ''Synaphobranchoidei''. The suborders are separated into 19 family (biology). The families are wikt:divide into 110 genus. The genera are then divided into species. There are 400 species of eels in all. The term "eel" is also used for other eel-shaped fish, such as electric eels, Mastacembelidaes, swamp eels, and deep-sea spiny eels. These other clades, however, evolved their eel-like shapes independently from the true eels. Eels live both in salt water and fresh water and some species are catadromous (they migrate). == Uses == Anguillidae (''unagi'') and marine eels (Conger eel, ''anago'') are used in Japanese food. Eels are used in Cantonese (Hong Kong) food and Shanghai food. Some people eat the European eel and other eels that live in lakes all around the world. A traditional London food is "jellied eels." The Spain meal, ''angulas'', consists of deep-Frying elvers. Image:Reticulated moray eel.jpg]] Eel skins are used to make some wallets and purses. In some classifications, the family Cyematidae of bobtail snipe eels is included in the Anguilliformes, but in the FishBase system that family is included in the order Saccopharyngiformes. The electric eel of South America is not a true eel, but is a Gymnotiformes more closely related to the carps and siluriformes. ==References== Category:Eels Category:Edible fish
