From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Futurama
| last_aired = | network2 = Comedy Central | first_aired2 = | last_aired2 = | network3 = Hulu | first_aired3 = | last_aired3 = present | list_episodes = List of Futurama episodes | related = ''The Simpsons'' }} '''''Futurama''''' is an American adult animated science fiction sitcom created by Matt Groening and developed by Groening and David X. Cohen for the Fox Broadcasting Company. It is in ''New'' New York City during the 31st century. The shows were first shown on Fox Broadcasting Company on March 28, 1999, until August 10, 2003. In 2008, Comedy Central in the United States began airing episodes, Comedy Central later said that the seventh Season (television) would be the final season. The series finale aired on September 4, 2013, though Groening has said he will try to get it picked up by another network. Also, 4 DVD movies were made. ==Plot summary== The series is about Philip J. Fry (Billy West), a lazy New York City pizza delivery boy, who cryonics himself by mistake on New Year's Eve, 1999. He wakes up one thousand years later on New Year's Eve, 2999, and finds himself in ''New'' New York City. Fry wants to get a new job, though in the end he is forced to be a delivery boy. Fry tries to escape from his job and afterwards goes to Planet Express, a small delivery company that goes around the galaxy owned by his distant nephew, where he becomes a delivery boy. The series then describes the adventures of Fry and the other workers as they go around the universe making deliveries. ==Characters== * Phillip J. Fry-A man from the year 1999 who finds himself in the year 3000. * Turanga Leela (Katey Sagal)– a cyclops (a creature with only one eye) who is one of Fry's friends. She is the pilot of Old Bessie and the captain of the crew. Fry falls in love with her. For a long time she does not love him back. Fry still tries to win her love many times. Finally they become boyfriend and girlfriend. Leela is brave and good at fighting. She also takes her job very seriously. That sometimes becomes a problem, because she does not give up a mission when it would be better. She has violet hair and wears a white tank top, black trousers and boots. * Bender (Futurama) (John DiMaggio) – a bending robot who is Fry's best friend. He is a Kleptomania. That means that he often steals things by accident or for fun. He drinks a lot of alcohol because that is his fuel. He also smokes cigars. Bender's last name is Rodriguez because he was built in Mexico. He dreams of killing all humans except Fry and becoming a famous Country music. His catchphrases are "Kiss my shiny metal ass!" and "Let's go already!" * Professor Farnsworth (Billy West) – an inventor and head of Planet Express. He is very old and wears thick eyeglasses, a lab coat and slippers. He is Fry's 30 times great grandnephew and his last living Kinship. The crew just calls him "The Professor". The Professor often invents dangerous things that the crew must get rid of. His catch phrase is "Good news everyone!" He says that before telling the crew their next mission. Usually that is not good news for the crew. * Dr. John Zoidberg (Billy West) – a crustacean-like creature from another planet. He is the Medical doctor at Planet Express, although he does not know much about human health. He lives in the dumpster behind the Planet Express building. Dr. Zoidberg often does not know how to behave right because he is an Extraterrestrial life. That is why the other Planet Express workers mock him. When he becomes very nervous, a comb unfolds on his head. * Amy Wong - a young woman from Mars. She assists the Professor in his experiments. Her parents are Chinese people. She has black hair and wears pink jogging clothes. * Hermes Conrad - a Bureaucracy from Jamaica. He does the paperwork for Planet Express and organizes everything. He is very fussy and strict about rules. Hermes is good at Limbo and likes hot food. He has a wife and a son. His son becomes friends with a clone of Professor Farnsworth. * General officer Zapp Brannigan - the self-absorbed leader of earth's army. He is incompetent but thinks he is the greatest. Zapp has a crush on Leela and tries to take advantage of when she is in danger. She always harshly rejects him because he is so unbearable. His alien assistant Kiff becomes Amy's boyfriend. * Nibbler - a little black alien with pointy canine teeth. The crew saves him from a collapsing planet and he becomes Leela's pet. He can eat animals that are ten times bigger than himself with one bite. He poops dark matter that is used as the fuel for Old Bessie. Nibbler wears a diaper and a red cape. He is actually very intelligent and can speak, but does not show it. He staged the accident that brought Fry to the future so Fry could save the world from an attack of giant hovering brains. ==Setting== The first episode begins in the year 2999 later 3000, a time where there are many technological advancements, as well as a place where 21st century problems are treated as everyday situations. In a jab at segregation, for example, the series depicts the human prejudice against Mutation as being so great that the latter have been forced to live underground in the sewers. The characters' home on Earth is the city of List of Futurama places#New New York, built over the ruins of present-day New York City, referred to as "Old New York". There is a fictional religion named Robotology in the television show. It is similar to United States black churches. ==Networks== Old episodes are now seen on Adult Swim (a part of Cartoon Network) and Too Funny To Sleep (a part of TBS (American TV channel)) in the United States, on Teletoon in Canada, on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom plus Sky One, Sky Two, Sky Three and TV6 (Ireland) in the UK and Republic of Ireland, on Fox8 and Network Ten in Australia, on Pro 7 in Germany and on Canal Fox in Latin America, including Colombia, Argentina, Mexico, etc. ==References== ==Other websites== * * * * * Category:1999 American television series debuts Category:Adult animated television series Category:1990s American sitcoms Category:1990s American animated television series Category:2000s American sitcoms Category:2000s science fiction television series Category:2010s American sitcoms Category:2010s American animated television series Category:2010s science fiction television series Category:2020s American sitcoms Category:2020s American animated television series Category:Adult Swim Category:2000s American animated television series Category:American science fiction television series Category:American time travel television series Category:Comedy science fiction Category:Fox television series Category:Futurama Category:Television series set in New York City Category:Television series set in the future Category:American English-language television shows Category:Television series by Rough Draft Studios
