From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Tyrannosaurus
'''''Tyrannosaurus rex''''' | type_species_authority = Osborn, 1905 | subdivision_ranks = Other species | subdivision = *''Tarbosaurus''?Evgeny Maleev, 1955 *''Zhuchengtyrannus''?C. Z. Hu, 2001 *''Tyrannosaurus mcraeensis''Dalman et. al, 2024 | synonyms = }} File:Dinosaur Exhibit at Houston Museum of Natural Science - Dec 2013.JPG''. Houston Museum of Natural History]] File:MUJA-Tyrannosaurus.JPG: Jurassic Museum of Asturias, Spain.]]File:Sues skeleton.jpg in Chicago is the most complete Tyrannosaurus skeleton]] File:Tyrannosaurus brain aus.jpg, at the Portobello Fossil Museum]] File:Tyrannosaurusscale.png '''''Tyrannosaurus''''' (meaning "tyrant lizard") was a large predatory dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous Upper Cretaceous, around 68 to 65 1,000,000 years ago.Hicks J.F. ''et al.'' 2002. Magnetostratigraphy and geochronology of the Hell Creek and basal Fort Union Formations of southwestern North Dakota and a recalibration of the Cretaceous–Tertiary Boundary. in J.H. Hartman, K.R. Johnson & D.J. Nichols (eds) ''The Hell Creek Formation and the Cretaceous–Tertiary boundary in the northern Great Plains: an integrated continental record of the end of the Cretaceous''. ''GSA Special Paper'', '''361''': 35–55. It was the last known tyrannosaurid. ''Tyrannosaurus'' became extinct in the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event, which wiped out half of all species on Earth. ''Tyrannosaurus'' was a bipedalism carnivore with a massive skull balanced by a long, heavy tail. Compared to the large and powerful hind Limb, its forelimbs were small, but powerful for their size. They had two Claw digits. There is discussion as to whether it was a hunter or a scavenger. Like most dominant meat-eaters of today, such as lions and hyenas, ''Tyrannosaurus'' might have been both. It had a very strong jaw, and its bite force was massive: twice as strong as a Hippopotamus, 3 times stronger than a Crocodile, and four times a Lion. With this bite power, ''Tyrannosaurus'' could snap the bones of smaller dinosaurs. The most famous species of tyrannosaurus is ''Tyrannosaurus rex''. Paleontology have found more than 30Fossil of this species. Some of them are nearly complete Skeleton, and at least one included soft tissue and proteins. Research has studied the dinosaur's biology, life history and biomechanics. Topics of debate include its feeding habits, physiology, and potential speed.YouTube lecture at the Royal Institution by David Hone. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f-jD7kQvyPs] Some scientists think ''Tarbosaurus'' from Asia is a second species of ''Tyrannosaurus'', but others think ''Tarbosaurus'' is a separate genus. == Description == === Size === Experts' estimates about ''Tyrannosaurus's'' size have changed many times. Packard and colleagues tested dinosaur mass calculations on Elephant. They concluded that dinosaur estimations were flawed and typically too high. Thus, the weight of ''Tyrannosaurus'' could be much less than usually estimated. Nevertheless, ''Tyrannosaurus'' was one of the largest known land predators. It was up to in length, up to tall at the head and up to in weight. One of the longest-running debates in paleontology is about whether ''Tyrannosaurus'' was an apex predator, a scavenger, or both. It was by far the largest carnivore in its environment, and may have preyed on hadrosaurs and ceratopsians, or it may have been a scavenger. For a long time, ''Tyrannosaurus'' was the largest known ''carnivorous'' dinosaur. Recently, skeletons of other, slightly larger, carnivores have been found, such as ''Giganotosaurus'', ''Spinosaurus'', and ''Carcharodontosaurus''. Skeletons of ''Tyrannosaurus'' were found on the North American continent, but relatives, such as ''Tarbosaurus'', have been found in Asia. === Skull === The largest known ''Tyrannosaurus rex'' skulls measure up to in length. Large openings ('fenestrae') in the skull reduced weight and gave places for muscle attachment, as in all carnivorous theropods. But in other respects ''Tyrannosaurus'''s skull was significantly different from those of large non-tyrannosaurid theropods. It was extremely wide at the rear but had a narrow snout. This permitted good binocular vision. The skull Bone were massive. Some bones were fused, preventing movement between them; but many were pneumatized, with a "honeycomb" of tiny air spaces. This may have made the bones more flexible as well as lighter. Most non-tyrannosauroid carnivores had V-shaped upper jaws. Tyrannosaurids were different: the tip of their jaws was U-shaped. This increased the amount of tissue and bone a tyrannosaur could rip out with one bite (although it also increased the stresses on the front Tooth). These features are part of the tyrannosaurid trend towards an increasingly powerful bite. These features made its bite strength easily surpass that of all non-tyrannosaurids. == First discovery == The earliest ''Tyrannosaurus'' skeletons were found in 1902 by Barnum Brown. Henry Fairfield Osborn, president of the American Museum of Natural History, named the species ''Tyrannosaurus rex'' (meaning "tyrant lizard king") in 1905. The most complete skeleton was found in 1990 in South Dakota and named "Sue (dinosaur)" after its finder, Susan Hendrickson. Several tyrannosaurids found later are also known by individual names. ''Tyrannosaurus'' has become well known. Many movies and television shows have featured it, such as ''Jurassic Park''. Its skeletons are popular exhibits in many Museum. == Fossil specimens == === Jane === File:Jane TRex Burpee.jpg '''Jane''' is a fossil specimen of a small tyrannosaurid. It is either ''Nanotyrannus'' or a juvenile ''Tyrannosaurus''. The skeleton was found in the Hell Creek Formation in southern Montana in 2001. It took experts four years to make the partial skeleton ready for a museum. Jane went on display at Rockford, Illinois in the Burpee Museum of Natural History. Some paleontologists think Jane was a young tyrannosaurid who died around 11 years old. Jane measures 6.5 metres (21.5ft) long, about half as long as the largest known complete ''T. rex'' specimen, which is 13m (42.6ft) long. Experts think Jane weighed about 680kg (1,500lbs) when she was alive. Her large feet and long legs show she could perhaps run as fast as 20–30 miles per hour. Her lower jaw has 17 teeth. Her teeth are curved and serration. The scientists named her 'Jane' even though they do not know whether she was female. She was named after Jane Solem, a person who helped the Burpee Museum.News Release: [http://www.niu.edu/PubAffairs/RELEASES/2005/sept/dinosympsm.shtml NIU teams up with Burpee Museum to bring world's top dinosaur hunters to Rockford] Scientists disagree whether ''Nanotyrannus'' is really a separate genus of tyrannosaurids. Some say that Jane's skull is almost exactly the same as the skull of the original ''Nanotyrannus'' specimen, which means they are the same species. At a Burpee Museum conference in 2005, paleontologists discussed whether these "pygmy tyrants" were adults from a small tyrannosaurid species or young ''Tyrannosaurus rexes''. A few scientists thought they were adult small tyrannosaurids,Larson 2005. A case for ''Nanotyrannus''. In ''The origin, systematics, and paleobiology of Tyrannosauridae'', a symposium hosted jointly by Burpee Museum of Natural History and Northern Illinois University. but most believed they were probably young ''T. rexes''.Currie ''et al.'' 2005. On tyrannosaur teeth, tooth positions and the taxonomic status of ''Nanotyrannus lancensis''. In ''The origin, systematics, and paleobiology of Tyrannosauridae'', a symposium hosted jointly by Burpee Museum of Natural History and Northern Illinois University.Henderson 2005. Nano no more: the death of the pygmy tyrant. In ''The origin, systematics, and paleobiology of Tyrannosauridae'', a symposium hosted jointly by Burpee Museum of Natural History and Northern Illinois University. === Scotty === File:Scotty Tyrannosaurus.jpg In August 1991, Robert Gebhardt was a high school principal who joined Royal Saskatchewan Museum palaeontologists on a prospecting expedition. They went to the exposed bedrock along the Frenchman River Valley in southwest Saskatchewan, Canada. There, Gebhardt discovered the base of a worn tooth and a tail vertebra. Both looked like they belonged to a ''T. rex''. In June 1994, RSM palaeontologists began Exhumation the ''T. rex''. The 66-million-year-old skeleton was the first ''T. rex'' skeleton found in Saskatchewan and one of only 12 known in the world at the time. It was named Scotty. Scotty is one of the largest and most complete dinosaur skeletons: paleontologists found 70% of the skeleton. A complete articulated cast of the skeleton was finally completed in 2012 and is now on display at its permanent home at the T.rex Discovery Centre in Eastend, Saskatchewan, Saskatchewan, Canada. Museum staff think Scotty is the biggest T. rex specimen ever found. It weighed about . Scotty was perhaps in its early thirties when it died, and was long, including its tail.''ScienceDaily'' [https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2019/03/190322163331.htm] Scotty's skull has a scar from the eye socket to the nostril. It was probably caused by another T. rex or large carnivore that gripped Scotty's skull in its jaws. ==In popular culture== Many people call ''Tyrannosaurus'' the "king of the dinosaurs". ''Tyrannosaurus rex'' appears in many works of fiction and literature. A ''T. rex'' is important in ''A Sound of Thunder'' by Ray Bradbury. A ''T. rex'' is a big part of the novel ''Jurassic Park'' by Michael Crichton and the Jurassic Park (movie) by Steven Spielberg, whose crew built a life-sized robot ''T. rex'' and a CGI ''T. rex'' for the set. Many other ''T. rexes'' have appeared in books, movies and animation works. == Related pages == *Sue (dinosaur) *Theropod *Tyrannosauridae == References == Category:Theropods Category:Tyrannosaurids Category:Dinosaurs of North America Category:Dinosaurs
