From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Cardcaptor Sakura
| demographic = ''Shōjo manga'' | magazine = Nakayoshi | first = May 1996 | last = June 2000 | volumes = 12 | volume_list = List of Cardcaptor Sakura chapters }} | network = Nickelodeon | network_en = | first = April 7, 1998 | last = March 21, 2000 | episodes = 70 | episode_list = List of Cardcaptor Sakura episodes }} '''''Cardcaptor Sakura''''' is a manga and anime series.[https://www.animenewsnetwork.com/encyclopedia/anime.php?id=126 Cardcaptor Sakura (TV) ] It is sometimes abbreviated as '''CCS'''. ''Cardcaptor Sakura'' was created in 1996 by a team of artists named CLAMP. CLAMP has created many other series, but ''Cardcaptor Sakura'' is one of the most popular. The manga was first published in ''Nakayoshi'' from 1996 to 2000. The story is about Sakura Kinomoto, an elementary school student who accidentally frees a deck of magical cards from a book hidden in her father's study. The book's guard, Keroberos, gives Sakura the task to find and capture the troublemaking cards. The series focuses on themes of love and family, Sakura and her friends, and their different relationships. The anime aired on Japanese television from 1998 to 2000, changing parts of the manga's story and introducing new characters, and has two films as well. The English version of the anime was licensed by Nelvana, renamed ''Cardcaptors'', and the story was changed a lot to suit an American audience. ==Story== Ten-year old Sakura Kinomoto is an athletic girl in elementary school. She lives with her father Fujitaka, an archaeology professor, and her older brother Toya. One day she finds a strange book, named the Clow Book, in her father's study. She finds the Clow Cards inside. She learns the cards are magical, accidentally setting them free when she calls the name of the Windy Card. The book's guardian, Kero, gives Sakura the task of finding and capturing the cards, using the Clow Wand to seal them in their card forms. In between all this, Sakura tries to live the life of a normal school girl. Few people know about Sakura's secret life. One of the few is her best friend and second cousin Tomoyo Daidouji. She admires Sakura and supports her in her adventures, while designing Sakura battle costumes and recording her adventures on a video camera. The other is Toya, who also has magical powers. His powers, however, are different to those of Sakura's. For instance, he has the power to communicate with spirits, such as that of their late mother Nadeshiko. Sakura meets Syaoran Li, a boy of her age and a distant relative of the Clow Cards' creator Clow Reed. Syaoran wants to capture the cards himself, becoming Sakura's rival, though they later become friends. Syaoran gains a crush on Sakura and starts to develop feelings for her. It later occurs to him that he is in love with Sakura. Tomoyo, who becomes friends with Syaoran, notices this. Syaoran is worried about telling Sakura that he loves her, concerned that his feelings may burden her due to the double life she leads. Tomoyo nevertheless encourages him to do so. He does attempt to tell Sakura on numerous occasions how he feels about her, but unexpected developments prevent this from happening. Sakura and Syaoran capture all of the cards between them but have to face the second guardian of the Clow Cards, Yue, to decide who will become the new master of the cards. Yue is revealed to be the true form of Yukito Tsukishiro, the friend of Sakura's older brother Toya. After a lengthy battle Sakura defeats Yue and becomes the new owner of the Clow Cards. Eriol Hiiragizawa, a student from England, arrives in Sakura's town and begins causing magical troubles around town. He has 3 allies. One is Ruby Moon; a magical being like Yue, who leads a double life as a student at Toya's school called Nakura. She comes to know Toya and Yukito, who is friends with Toya. She enjoys flirting with Toya, much to his annoyance. This is partly due to the fact that he loves Yukito, who loves Toya in return. Another is Spinel Sun, a magical beast like Kero. The other is Kaho Mizuki, a teacher at Sakura's school who has magical powers. Sakura learns that Eriol caused these troubles in order to prompt her to transform the cards into Sakura Cards to continue using their magic or they would become normal cards. Eriol is revealed to be a reincarnation of Clow Reed. Although a different person to Clow Reed, he is the heir to Reed's memories. After tasking Sakura with one last challenge, involving a duel between them, all of the cards are successfully transformed. Eriol returns to England with Kaho, Nakura and Spinel. Syaoran confesses to Sakura that he loves her, who later admits to herself and to Syaoran that she loves him in return. Syaoran reluctantly returns home to Hong Kong but returns to Japan for good two years later to be with Sakura. In the ending of the manga version, Sakura is starting Middle School, and on the way finds to her joy Syaoran waiting for her. Syaoran tells Sakura that he finally finished what he had to do in Hong Kong and can now stay in Tomoeda for good. The two happily embrace, with a tearful Sakura proclaiming that from now on, they will be together forever.Cardcaptor Sakura Collector's Edition Volume 9, Kodansha Comics, English edition 2021, P.286-291 ==Characters== The characters' Japanese names are followed by their English names. {| |- | '''Sakura Kinomoto (木之本櫻)''' / Sakura Avalon '''Toya Kinomoto (木之本桃矢)''' / Tori Avalon '''Fujitaka Kinomoto (木之本藤隆)''' / Aiden Avalon '''Nadeshiko Kinomoto (木之本撫子)''' / Natasha Avalon '''Syaoran Li (李小狼)''' / Li Showron '''Meiling Li (李每鈴)''' / Meilin Rae '''Tomoyo Daidouji (大道寺知世)''' / Madison Taylor '''Sonomi Daidouji (大道寺園美)''' / Samantha Taylor '''Eriol Hiiragizawa (桐澤エリオル)''' / Eli Moon '''Kaho Mizuki (觀月歌帆)''' / Layla Mackenzie '''Yukito Tsukishiro (月城雪兎)''' / Julian Star | '''Clow Reed''' / Clow Reed '''Keroberos (ケロベロス)''' / Cerberus '''Yue (ユエ)''' / Yue '''Spinel Sun (スピネル-サン)''' / Spinner Sun '''Ruby Moon (Nakuru Akizuki/秋月奈久留)''' / Ruby Moon '''Chiharu Mihara (三原千春)''' / Chelsea '''Rika Sasaki (佐佐木 利佳)''' / Rita '''Takashi Yamazaki (山崎貴史)''' / Zachary '''Naoko Yanagisawa (柳澤奈緖子)''' / Nikki '''Maki Matsumoto''' '''(松本 真樹)''' / Maggie '''Yoshiyuki Terada (寺田良幸)''' / Mr. Terada |} ==Media== ''Cardcaptor Sakura'' is shown in many countries around the world. CCS is popular, because it is very cute. There are many posters and many toys about CCS. ==Bonus manga stories== Two additional bonus manga stories were released as part of some Cardcaptor Sakura Illustrated Collections that came out in Japan. The first story focuses on Toya caring for Sakura while she has a cold. Cardcaptor Sakura illustrations Collections 1 While cooking curry with Yukito, Toya receives a call from Tomoyo, who is outside the Kinomoto house with Sakura, who Tomoyo walked home with. Toya finds Tomoyo holding a poorly Sakura, who has a fever from a cold she caught. Toya comes to her aid, who is worried about her. Yukito also enquires Sakura about her health. A worried Toya takes Sakura to her room, and they both reflect on how long its been since she last had a cold. While Kero watches over her, Sakura thinks about how this is like the last time she had a cold. She reflects on how she feels so lonely whenever she catches a cold or gets sick, feeling like there is no one else in the world. Sakura reassures herself that Toya will soon come for her, remembering how he was there for her when she last had a fever and cold when they were kids. Sakura regrets not being able to go to school, telling Toya that they will be learning a new song at kindergarten and likes the teacher a lot. Toya assures Sakura that he will take her if her temperature goes down. Happy, Sakura promises to teach him the new song too. Sakura’s head starts to spin. Toya places his hand on her head, which comforts her. Toya asks Sakura if she would like him to make her a drink, and asks if she can have warm milk with honey. She remembers being given this drink when she had a fever when she was very little. Toya sadly remembers that it was their mother who made that for Sakura, and does the same for her. In the present day, Toya makes Sakura the same drink, telling Yukito (smiling) that Sakura always likes to have that drink whenever she has a fever. Back in her room, Sakura knows that her big brother will bring her that drink she likes, and knows that when he does so, she will definitely be fine the next day. The second bonus manga story appeared in the second Illustrated Collection.[https://archive.org/details/cardcaptor-sakura-illustrations-collection-2-sakura-cards/page/n1/mode/2up Cardcaptor Sakura Illustrations Collection 2, P.104-120] It focuses on the love that had developed between Sakura and Syaoran during the course of the series. While in class, Sakura and Tomoyo look worried about Syaoran; noting how red he looks. Tomoyo wonders if Syaoran has a cold. Sakura places her hand on Syaoran’s forehead who sees that he is burning up. Syaoran slumps on his desk which worries Sakura, and Tomoyo reckons his temperature has gone up. Sakura asks Syaoran if he really is okay. He says that he will go home and have some sleep and medicine. Tomoyo asks him to stay warm and Sakura gives him a worried look. He assures her that he is fine. Tomoyo hopes he will get better soon. Sakura does as well, who watches Syaoran as he heads home. Back at her house, where Yukito and Toya are cooking. Yukito notices that Sakura looks down and she explains that Syaoran has a high fever. Yukito thinks it is a cold given that it is cold at night at that time. Although Toya gets annoyed at hearing Syaoran’s name being mentioned, he gives Sakura some food to give to him. Happy, Sakura gets changed and heads to Syaoran’s apartment. Syaoran is feeling groggy and unable to cook for himself even though he needs to eat something with his medicine. Syaoran lets Sakura in and blushes at seeing her. He soon calms down and smiles at Sakura when she goes to the kitchen to make something for him. While eating the food she brought to Syaoran, Sakura gives him some warm milk and honey. She tells Syaoran that she always drinks that when she has a cold. She also hopes his fever goes down quickly. Syaoran smiles and drinks it. Although worried it may be too sweet, Syaoran tells her that it is delicious. A smiling Sakura tells him to keep drinking that and get lots of rest. She also says that it will be great if he feels better tomorrow. Sakura and Syaoran smile at each other, with Syaoran noting that everything will be all right. ==Sakura and the 2 Bears animated special== In 2017, an animated special was released called “Sakura and the 2 Bears.” Serving as a prologue to the Clear Card sequel series.[https://www.animenewsnetwork.com/encyclopedia/anime.php?id=19484 Cardcaptor Sakura: Clear Card Prologue (OAV)] The special adapted several events from Chapters 46 to 50 of the original manga series. These events dealt mainly with Sakura and Syaoran coming to terms with their love for each other. While going to class one morning, Sakura is surprised to find that she has arrived before Syaoran. When he comes in, he says that he got a call from his mother. Sakura asks him what its about, but before he can say anything their teacher Mr. Terada announces that Eriol will be returning to England. This shocks Sakura, Syaoran, and the others in class. While heading home, she finds Syaoran waiting for her. They go the local park, where Syaoran finally tells her the truth about his feelings for her. He tells Sakura that he loves her and that she is the one he loves the most. Sakura is stunned at his revelation. Syaoran looks sad, saying that is all he wished to say. He also tells Sakura to be careful on her way home. Back at her house, Sakura lies in her bed, struggling to understand the feeling within her that she has for Syaoran. She realises that what she feels for him is different to that of a friend. Toya is aware of what’s going on, having long suspected that Sakura and Syaoran would get romantically involved. Sakura confides in Tomoyo, who is happy that Syaoran finally told Sakura how he feels, but Sakura is still unsure about her own feelings for him. Sakura tells Tomoyo that her chest feels tight when she thinks of Syaoran, and gets tighter when she wonders what he is thinking of her. Tomoyo assures Sakura that the answer is in her. Sakura and Syaoran pay one final visit to Eriol, Kaho, Spinel Sun and Nakura before their departure, while Kaho gives Sakura presents for her and Syaoran. When Sakura goes to Syaoran’s apartment building to give him Kaho’s gift to him, he reveals to her anguish that he is returning to Hong Kong. He tells Sakura that there is something he has to do there. Sakura runs away upset. She finally realizes what Syaoran means to her. She makes a teddy bear to give to Syaoran to express her love for him. Yukito sees this, and asks Sakura if she found the one she loved the most. Sakura happily says she did. Yukito asks Sakura if he can reintroduce them to him someday (not asking Sakura who the person is), but she isn’t sure when Syaoran will be back. Yukito assures Sakura that if she and Syaoran feel the same way, and want to see each other again, then they will. The next morning, Sakura learns from Tomoyo that Syaoran is taking a morning flight, but with Toya's help, reaches Syaoran in time to give it to him. Sakura reveals to Syaoran (who was unsure if Sakura felt the same way about him) that she also loves him, telling Syaoran that he is her “Number One” (the person that she loves the most). Knowing for sure now that Sakura loves him the same way, Syaoran smiles and thanks her for the bear. They both agree to name their respective bears after the other. As the bus begins to leave, Syaoran promises to return to Tomoeda when he is finished with his business in Hong Kong. Syaoran desperately asks Sakura, shouting, if she will wait for him. Sakura promises that she will. Syaoran smiles lovingly back at her, happy to know this. Sakura vows that she wait for as long as she has to, thinking about how Syaoran is the person she loves the most. A few years later, Sakura is starting Middle School. On the way she walks pass the falling cherry blossoms. She regrets that Syaoran isn’t there to watch them with her. She suddenly sees Syaoran waiting for her, holding the bear she gave him so long ago, and happily runs into his arms. The two embrace; reunited and truly together at long last. The name of the special refers to a made up Japanese tradition in the series. If two people love each other, one way they can express it is by giving each other teddy bears. Also, if they name the bears after each other, it means they will be together forever. == References == Category:Anime series based on manga Category:Madhouse (company)
