From:
To:
Date:
Subject: President pro tempore of the United States Senate
The '''president ''pro tempore''''' ( or ), or '''president pro tem''', '''of the United States Senate''' is the longest serving senator from the majority political party in the United States Senate. According to the United States Constitution, this is the fourth highest office in the United States. It is the third in the U.S. presidential line of succession (behind the Vice President of the United States and the speaker of the House). Many US states senates also use the office of President pro tem. Officially the vice president is the person in charge of the Senate, but they are not a Senator. Chuck Grassley (Republican Party (United States)-Iowa) is the current president pro tempore . When the vice president cannot be in charge, the president pro tempore is in charge of the Senate. Many people still think of the president pro tempore as ''de facto'' president of the Senate. Benjamin Wade was only one vote away from becoming the president of the United States due to the impeachment of Andrew Johnson. No president pro tempore has ever taken over the presidency. Probably the most famous presidents pro tempore were John Langdon (first in this office), David Rice Atchison (D-Missouri), Benjamin Wade (United States Republican Party-Ohio), Arthur Vandenberg (R-Michigan), Carl Hayden (D-Arizona) Richard Russell, Jr. (D-Georgia (U.S. state)), Strom Thurmond (R-South Carolina), Robert Byrd (D-West Virginia), Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont). When Senator Hubert Humphrey, a former Vice President of the United States, was seriously ill, the Senate showed its respect for him by creating the office of Deputy President Pro tempore for any former president or vice president who is elected to the Senate. No vice president since Humphrey has held this. == President pro tempore emeritus == Since 2001, the honorary title of president pro tempore emeritus has been given to a Senator of the Two-party system who has previously served as president pro tempore. The position has been held by: * Strom Thurmond (R-List of United States Senators from South Carolina) (2001-2003) * Robert Byrd (D-List of United States Senators from West Virginia) (2003-2007) * Ted Stevens (R-List of United States Senators from Alaska) (2007-2009) * Patrick Leahy (D-List of United States Senators from Vermont) (2015-2021) * Chuck Grassley (R-List of United States Senators from Iowa) (2021-2025) * Patty Murray (D-List of United States Senators from Washington) (since 2025) ==References== Category:Presidents pro tempore of the United States Senate
