From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Gillidanda
'''Gilli 'गिल्ली" -danda "डन्डा"''' is a game played by children in South Asia. It is usually played by using a small round stick, about as long as a baseball bat or Cricket. This is the ''danda''. There is another smaller stick, round in the middle and tapering towards the ends. This is the ''gilli''. The game gilli-danda is similar to cricket. It is also believed to be the origin of cricket. ==Players== This game is also know as ''Viti Dandu'', ''Kitti Pul'' and by other variations as well. It is a sport originated from the Indian subcontinent and is also played in the rural areas as well as in small towns over South Asia, Cambodia, Turkey, South Africa, Italy, Poland and in some Caribbeans like Cuba. ==Rules== To play the game, one team uses the "danda" to hit one of the tapered ends of the "gilli" with force. This causes the "gilli" to flip through the air. While the "gilli" is airborne, the opposing team's hitter attempts to smack it like one would as if playing cricket. The one who hits the "gilli" the farthest will win. It is played with two teams. One side pitches the "gilli" using the big "danda" (not bare hands), to the other team's hitter. The hitter, using his "danda" hits the "gilli". In the course of play, if the "gilli" is caught, then those players who pitched with the big "danda" to the hitter, are out of the game.If the gilli falls on the ground the fielder closest to the gilli gets an opportunity to make the hitter out.He has to throw the gilli towards the danda if the danda is been hit by the gilli it means the striker is out if not then the fielder gains 1 point.When the striker gains 1 point he will get 3 tries to hit the danda if the gilli still doesn't hit the danda the striker is out.If he is successful,the 1 point which he gained will continue.At the end who has the maximum points wins the game.It was most popularly played around 1970 to 1980 throughout India and Pakistan and is played to this day. Category:Games Category:Indian culture Category:Pakistani culture
