From:
To:
Date:
Subject: John the Apostle
'''John the Apostle''' was an Twelve Apostles of Jesus. He wrote many books: the Gospel of John, First Epistle of John, Second Epistle of John, Third Epistle of John, and the Book of Revelation. John was born in 6AD in Bethsaida in an area called Galilee which was ruled by Herod Agrippa at the time. John was the son of Zebedee and Salome. He was also the brother of the first Christian martyr listed, James (son of Zebedee) and was part of the Twelve Apostles and followed Jesus Christ as on of his closest friends. John is mentioned many times in the New Testament and wrote a few books himself too called, The Gospel of John, John 1, 2 and 3. He also wrote the last testament and the only book based upon one's vision: Book of Revelation. == Family Life/ Life before Jesus Christ == John was the first son of Zebedee and Salome and the only brother of James (son of Zebedee) and he was a bright child growing up. Historians suggest John was privileged, if not rich and they have 3 points to support themselves: # He was known by name to the high- priest. The high-priest was at the very top of Jewish society. # He was classically educated. He could read letters and spoke Hebrew, Aramaic and Greek and maybe even a bit of Roman. # His father relied on ''hired men'' or ''bought men'' in other translations, suggesting he had slaves. Slaves are expensive! == Life after Jesus' death == John would've been devastated. Jesus would have been like a second brother to him and he would be utterly shattered. Then with the resurrection and ascension he woud have been overjoyed. Amazed, even. John stayed in Jerusalem until the spirit of the Holy Spirit promise of the Pentecost had passed and he travelled all the way After Pentecost, the next known place John went is unclear. He most likely went to his hometown in Galilee, Bethsaida and preached to the people there. He stayed in touch with the others when they went through Samaria and Jerusalem. == Feast Day == The feast day is celebrated on December 27. Category:Christian mystics Category:Twelve Apostles Category:6 births Category:100s deaths Category:Ancient Roman writers Category:Evangelists Category:1st-century writers Category:2nd-century writers
