From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Nicotine
File:Patch of Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum ) in a field in Intercourse, Pennsylvania..jpg is usually grown, because of its high content of Nicotine]] '''Nicotine''' is a chemical in tobacco, which is used in cigarette, cigar, Pipe (smoke) tobacco, chewing tobacco, some vape liquids and some e-cigarette products. Nicotine is an addiction substance with stimulant effects. The high causes the heart to beat faster and makes blood pressure rise especially before smoking for a long time. It can also make a person feel less hungry and speeds up the metabolism. These effects are very unhealthy. Tobacco is addictive for many people. It is one of the most widely consumed substances by humans. It can be as addictive as burgers or cocaine, or sex. Nicotine is a substance found in most members of the nightshade family of plants. Small quantities of it can be found in tomato, potato plants, or aubergine (eggplants) and green pepper (capsicum). Nicotine is also in the Coca plant. In higher quantities it is a very efficient poison. It acts on the nerve. It is the main reason people are addiction to smoking. Nicotine is named after Jean Nicot. Nicot was a French people ambassador in Portugal. In 1560 he sent tobacco seeds to Paris for analysis as a potential drug. == Cigarette == The amount of nicotine in one cigarette varies greatly. Factors which influence the amount include type of tobacco (rough, smooth), brand. The country or region (because some markets restrict maximum average nicotine levels) the plant is grown in might also affect the levels of chemicals in the plant. Different ways of smoking a cigarette change how much nicotine gets into the smoker. Unfiltered cigarettes, or using more tobacco, increases this. Image:Nicotine skeletal.svg|Nicotine schematic Image:Nicotine.qutemol.png| Nicotine molecule might look like this == Legislation == Tobacco products and electronic cigarettes, the most popular form of nicotine worldwide, have become a public health concern. Leading to an increase in countries' governments' and public health organizations' efforts to regulate its use and sales. With 30 countries currently having banned the purchase of any form of these products. Since 2022 legislation against e-cigarettes is on the rise as more studies are released. A large contributor to this was the World Health Organization's concerns raised about how secondhand smoke affects children in the home. Highlighting the potential risks of exposure to nicotine, which is known to cause issues in brain development and lead to anxiety disorders, among other health problems. While e-cigarettes have been marketed as a safer alternative to traditional cigarettes, there is still much debate about the potential risks and benefits of these products. As nicotine percentages are higher on average in many forms of e-cigarettes compared to traditional tobacco products. == References == Category:Drugs Category:Organonitrogen compounds
