From:
To:
Date:
Subject: The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland
'''The Little Fox''' is an animated family Drama (film and television) movie from 1987, released by Cineplex Odeon Films. It is the last big-screen movie to star the Care Bears characters, and is loosely based on Lewis Carroll's ''Alice in Wonderland'' stories. The film was over a fox man, after getting separated from his fox pack, is adopted by a settlement of wolves. This movie has a sequel called ''Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation'' (1986). == Plot == In 1876 Germany, a young fox named Huk lives with his fox pack and has learned to be brave by his father. One day, a group of hunters come and begin hunting the forest animals, causing them to evacuate. Huk is separate from his family and is forced to hide in the log, which floats downriver in its found by the leaders pack, Akela, who adopts him after a talk from his wife Raksha. Huk it’s from different from the walls where he always gets into trouble and uses to eat sheep. One day, the wolves top leader, pack named Merno takes him to steal a flock of sheep to feed. However, Huk refuses and attempting to save a little lamb when it gets stuck in a bucket ends in disaster, where his left ear is burned, and he hast to be carried safely from the farmer chasing them. In winter, food is very scarce for the Wolfpack. Him Begins to regret not gathering sheep and goes out later and manages to find one foolishly getting out after boasting that he can stand any wild animal. Despite his best, he’s not very good i’m keeping his teeth shut, and all that bites he gets is just some bite marks on the sheep leg. Hug later find a sheep baby lamb named Chirin and they strike a friendship. Winter starts going very bad for the wolves. Him and Chrin attempted to eat each other in order to survive, and they lead to find a human can. They make a cake and try to talk to a painting, and after several difficulties, they managed to break a cake and leave, but accidentally caused a mess. The owner finds them and starts chasing after them and they are forced to hide under a burrow, where a badger reluctantly Keep them into the wolves family find them. after the encounter, Huk growth, fully distrustful of humans. After seeing one of them purposely caused a small fire she begins to hate them. One day, a hound dog appears, and they become friends. Chirin becomes jealous, and in his anger, rings the bell that was tied to him, and warned to not ring at all cost, attracting the hound, dogs, brother, who begins to chase the fox. Huk run into a train yard and he begins to corn them. Luckily, the hound dog manages to keep him stable enough for hook to escape. Chirin Begins growling at hug, but after seeing him frighted and reminding him of the farmer, tearfully decides to not attack him any longer. The two soon become friends again come in the hound dog appears unharmed, but his brother has to be sent away to calm down. The wolves finally find food after a Shepherd carelessly decides to quit his life as a shepherd and find something else exciting for him. They feast greedily on the sheep off screen, duly regaining their health. Huk is left out, but Akela appears, give him a piece of cooked sheep to eat. Soon, spring comes, and Huk grows to be an adult fox. He encounters a young vixen, who begins to dislike him, but he managed to save her when a human starts whipping her. The two fall in love, and Chirin accidentally tells the wolves that Hul will lead them. The wolves become sad and begin Halloween once he leaves with his wife. However, Hunters one of the animals presents, and they start attacking them in an ambush. Huh realized with his family have had another baby. The reunion is cut short on 100 begin to attack, swiping every animal. Huk bites his arm, and he starts whipping him. The animal will begin to attack and push the hunters off a cliff. However, a kerosene lamp and a chemical cause of fire. The animals evacuate the forest, and hook is separated from the wolves in the fox family. He managed to escape to the bank of a creek, and he stays behind to help a porcupine get to safety. However, he finds out that all of the Porsche animals ran away without him, and his despair learning that the force that he knew is gone, begins sobbing and wailing as the forest fire begins to dissipate. The movie ends when the narrator says that after the Forest fire and Huck’s mate found him, they had a litter together. The forest animals have returned back to their forest home, the lambs have been looking around for hunters, the hunter has died from the horse fire, and the wolves and fox family all reunite with them, as a reprise of little fox begins to play. == Other websites == * *[http://movies2.nytimes.com/mem/movies/review.html?title1=&title2=CARE%20BEARS%27%20ADVENTURE%20IN%20WONDERLAND%2c%20THE%20%28MOVIE%29&reviewer=Caryn%20James&pdate=19870807&v_id=8199 NYTimes.com review] (registration required) *[http://www.aquamarine.nu/lyrics/af/carebearsadventurewonderland.php Lyrics to the movie's soundtrack at Distant Melody] Category:1987 movies Category:1980s animated movies Category:1980s family movies Category:Canadian animated movies Category:Canadian family movies Category:English-language movies
