From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Zeno of Elea
'''Zeno of Elea''' was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher of southern Italy. He was born about 495 BC and died about 430 BC: the exact dates are not known meaning he was around the age of 65 years old. Zeno a member of the Eleatic School founded by Parmenides. Aristotle called him the inventor of dialectic.Diogenes Laërtius, 8.57, 9.25 He is best known for his Zeno's paradoxes, which Bertrand Russell has described as "immeasurably subtle and profound".Russell, p. 347: "In this capricious world nothing is more capricious than posthumous fame. One of the most notable victims of posterity's lack of judgement is the Eleatic Zeno. Having invented four arguments all immeasurably subtle and profound, the grossness of subsequent philosophers pronounced him to be a mere ingenious juggler, and his arguments to be one and all sophisms. After two thousand years of continual refutation, these sophisms were reinstated and made the foundation of a mathematical renaissance..." Zeno also founded the Stoic School of Philosophy. He was labeled as the "inventor of dialect" by AristotleFile:Zeno of Citium, drawing.jpg == Works == Although many ancient writers refer to the writings of Zeno, not one of his writings have survived intact. Plato says that Zeno's writings were "brought to Athens for the first time on the occasion of" the visit of Zeno and ParmenidesPlato (370 BC). [http://classics.mit.edu/Plato/parmenides.html ''Parmenides''] , translated by Benjamin Jowett. Internet Classics Archive. According to Proclus in his ''Commentary on Plato's Parmenides'', Zeno produced "not less than forty arguments revealing contradictions", p29 but only nine are now known. Zeno's arguments are perhaps the first examples of a method of proof called ''reductio ad absurdum'', meaning ''to reduce to the absurd''. This destructive method of argument was used by him to such an extent that he became famous for it.''Zeno'' in ''The Presocratics'', Philip Wheelwright ed. 1966. The Odyssey Press. 106-107. == Related pages == *Zeno's paradoxes == References == Category:490s BC births Category:5th-century BC deaths Category:Presocratic philosophers
