From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Napoleonic Wars
() | place = Europe, Atlantic Ocean, Mediterranean Sea, North Sea, Río de la Plata, French Guiana, West Indies, Indian Ocean, North America, Caucasus | result = Coalition victoryCongress of Vienna * Fall of the First French Empire * Bourbon Restoration * Dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire and Treaty of Kiel * Decline of the Spanish American Wars of Independence and Portuguese Empire empiresBenjamin Keen and Keith Haynes, ''A History of Latin America'' (2012) ch 8 * Establishment of the United Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway, and the United Kingdom of the NetherlandsEdward ''et al.'', pp. 522–524 * Rise of the British Empire as the Pax Britannica * Rise of Kingdom of Prussia as a great power * Beginning of the Italian unification and the Unification of GermanyJakob Walter, and Marc Raeff. ''The diary of a Napoleonic foot soldier''. Princeton, N.J., 1996. * Widespread rise of nationalism and liberalism in EuropeMartyn Lyons p. 234–36 * Major population loss }} | combatant1 = United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland | Electorate of HanoverHanover was in a Personal Union with Great Britain | Austrian EmpireThe term "Austrian Empire" came into use after Napoleon crowned himself Emperor of the French in 1804, whereby Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor took the title Emperor of Austria ('''') in response. The Holy Roman Empire was dissolved in 1806, and consequently "Emperor of Austria" became Francis' primary title. For this reason, "Austrian Empire" is often used instead of "Holy Roman Empire" for brevity's sake when speaking of the Napoleonic Wars, even though the two entities are not synonymous.Both Austria and Prussia briefly became allies of France and contributed forces to the French Invasion of Russia in 1812. |File: Russian Imperial Standart 1730.png Russian EmpireRussia became an ally of France following the Treaty of Tilsit in 1807. The alliance broke down in 1810, which led to the French invasion in 1812. During that time Russia waged war against Finnish War (1808–1809) and the Russo-Turkish War (1806–1812) (1806–1812), and nominally against Anglo-Russian War (1807–1812) (1807–1812). | | Enlightenment SpainSpain was an ally of France until a stealthy French invasion in 1808, then fought France in the Peninsular War. | Portuguese Empire |Nominally, Sweden declared Anglo-Swedish War (1810–1812) after its defeat by Russia in the Finnish War (1808–1809). | Émigré armies of the French Revolutionary Wars | Papal States |The Ottoman Empire fought against Napoleon in the French Campaign in Egypt and Syria as part of the French Revolutionary Wars. During the Napoleonic era of 1803 to 1815, the Empire participated in two wars against the Allies: against Britain in the Anglo-Turkish War (1807–1809) and against Russia in the Russo-Turkish War (1806–1812). Russia was allied with Napoleon 1807–1810. | Qajar dynastyQajar dynasty fought against Russia from 1804 to 1813; the Russians were allied with Napoleon 1807–1812. | |File:Blason louis II de Hongrie.svg Kingdom of Hungary (1538–1867)The Austrian Imperial-Royal Army ('''') 1805 – 1809: The Hungarian Royal Army [http://www.napoleon-series.org/military/organization/Austria/ArmyStudy/c_AustrianArmyHungary.html The Austrian Imperial-Royal Army Kaiserliche-Knigliche Heer): 1805 1809] in the Imperial and Royal Army, and also by a traditional army ("insurrectio").Todd Fisher: ''The Napoleonic Wars: The Empires Fight Back 1808–1812'', Oshray Publishing, 2001 [https://books.google.com/books?id=fpNMC02Im0YC&pg=PA7] The Hungarian Diet voted to join in war and agreed to pay one third of the war expenses.|group=lower-alpha}} | Kingdom of Bavaria | Kingdom of Württemberg | Kingdom of Saxony | Kingdom of Sardinia | United Kingdom of the Netherlands | | Grand Duchy of Tuscany | Nassau (state) | Prince-Bishopric of Montenegro }} | combatant2 = '''First French Empire''' First French Republic (1792–1804) First French Empire (1804–1815) | Duchy of WarsawNapoleon established the Duchy of Warsaw, ruled by the Kingdom of Saxony in 1807. Polish Legions (Napoleonic period) had already been serving in the French armies beforehand. |File:POL COA Ciołek.svg Polish Legions (Napoleonic period) | Kingdom of HollandThe French Empire annexed the Kingdom of Holland in 1810. Dutch troops fought against Napoleon during the Hundred Days in 1815. | Kingdom of EtruriaThe French Empire annexed the Kingdom of Etruria in 1807. | Principality of Lucca and Piombino |The Kingdom of Naples, briefly allied with Austria in 1814, allied with France again and fought against Austria during the Neapolitan War in 1815. | Swiss Confederation (Napoleonic) |Confederation of the RhineSixteen of France's allies among the German states (including Bavaria and Württemberg) established the Confederation of the Rhine in July 1806 following the Battle of Austerlitz (December 1805). Following the Battle of Jena-Auerstedt (October 1806), various other German states that had previously fought alongside the anti-French allies, including Saxony and Westphalia, also allied with France and joined the Confederation. Saxony changed sides again in 1813 during the Battle of Leipzig, causing most other member-states to quickly follow suit and declare war on France.These four states were the leading nations of the Confederation, but the Confederation was made up of a total of 43 principalities, kingdoms, and duchies. | Kingdom of Spain (Napoleonic) }} ---- Enlightenment Spain| Denmark–NorwayDenmark-Norway remained neutral until the Battle of Copenhagen (1807). Denmark was compelled to cede Norway to Sweden by the Treaty of Kiel in 1814. Following a brief Swedish-Norwegian War (1814), Norway entered a Union between Sweden and Norway with Sweden.}}| Austrian Empire||File: Russian Imperial Standart 1730.png Russian Empire|| Qajar dynasty| }} ---- | commander1 = George III Duke of Wellington Horatio Nelson † Francis II Alexander I Mikhail Kutuzov Michael de Tolly Pyotr Bagration † Gustav IV Adolf Charles XIII Charles XIV John John VI Ferdinand I Friedrich Wilhelm III Fernando VII Louis XVIII William I of Netherlands William II of Netherlands | commander2 = Napoleon Jean-de-Dieu Soult Louis-Nicholas Davout Andre Massena Michel Ney Louis Bonaparte Eugene de Beauharnais Charles IV of Spain Joachim Murat Friedrich August I Józef Poniatowski † Maximillien I Joseph Jerome Bonaparte ]] The '''Napoleonic Wars''' were fought during the rule of Napoleon I of France over France. They started after the French Revolution ended, and Bonaparte became powerful in France in November 1799. War restarted between the United Kingdom and France in 1803 despite the Treaty of Amiens. The wars changed European military systems. Cannon became lighter and moved faster. Armies were much larger but had better food and supplies and were very large and destructive, mainly because of conscription. The French became powerful very fast and conquered most of Europe but then lost quickly after the French invasion of Russia failed. The Napoleonic Wars ended with the Second Treaty of Paris on 20 November 1815, just after the huge Battle of Waterloo, a large battle that the French lost. Napoleon was sent into exile, and the Bourbon Dynasty ruled France again. Some people call the time between 20 April 1792 and 20 November 1815 "the Great French War". On one side were the France, the Kingdom of Italy and others. On the other side were Great Britain, Prussia, Austria, Russia, Sweden, Portugal, Spain, Sicily, and others. == 1805-1812: Napoleon conquers Europe == On May 18, 1804, Napoleon was crowned Emperor of the French at Notre Dame de Paris. The following year, the '''Third''' '''Coalition''' started in response, but he crowned himself '''King of Italy'''. Austrian Emperor Francis I of Austria angrily declared war on him and began the War of the Third Coalition. The British destroyed the French Navy at the Battle of Trafalgar in October. In December, the Austrians and the Russians allied and fought the French at the Battle of Austerlitz. The Russo-Austrian army suffered a devastating defeat and had to sign a treaty with Napoleon. In 1806, the War of the Fourth Coalition started. The Prussia declared war on France first but was crushed by Napoleon's troops at the Battle of Jena. Napoleon captured Berlin before the Russians could help. In 1807, Napoleon defeated the Russian army at the Battle of Friedland, which ended the Fourth Coalition. In 1809, the War of the Fifth Coalition began with Austria declaring war on Napoleon. In the early phases of the war, the Austrians had the advantage of the war, but later the French captured Vienna and ended the Fifth Coalition. At the height of his power in 1810, Napoleon had controlled France, Spain, northern Italy, Germany and part of Russia. In 1808, the Peninsular War began when Napoleon crowned his brother Joseph Bonaparte as King of Spain, and France fought British, Spanish, and Portuguese troops. In 1809, the Finnish War began between Russia and Sweden after Sweden and Portugal made peace with France. That led to the annexation of Finland by Russia and the decisive failure of Sweden. In 1811, France and Russia had disagreements again, and Napoleon allied with Prussia and Austria and invaded Russia. == 1812: Invasion of Russia and War of 1812 == Napoleon staged a French invasion of Russia in 1812 by gathering the largest army that Europe and possibly the whole world had ever seen, just as the United States and the British started the War of 1812. In Russia, Napoleon barely won the huge Battle of Borodino but lost many of his soldiers. Napoleon hoped to make peace with the Russias, but they decided to retreat and Evacuation Moscow to the advancing French troops. Napoleon found Moscow empty and burning. The cold winter along with starvation from scorched earth tactics devastated Napoleon's army. That was the first important defeat in his conquest of Europe Napoleon's weakened ''Grande Armée'' had to retreat to Paris through the freezing winter of Russia but was finally defeated by the Russians. Prussia and Austria declared war after Napoleon's failure and began the War of the Sixth Coalition. Later, Leo Tolstoy's novel War and Peace and Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky's music piece 1812 Overture depicted the Patriotic War and celebrated the resistance and the liberation of Russia. Meanwhile, the much smaller War of 1812 started between the British and the Americans, the latter trying to conquer Canada. The war continued until 1815, neither side gaining anything. Revolutions in Latin America made independent states in the Americas of most of the Spanish Empire, which was unstable by the French invasion. == 1813-1814: Battle of Leipzig and First Restoration == The British, Spanish and Portuguese had pushed Napoleon's forces out of Spain after the Vitoria-Gasteiz. Britain, Russia, Prussia, and Austria defeated Napoleon at the Battle of Leipzig and captured Paris in 1814. The brother of the executed King Louis XVI had already proclaimed himself as French King Louis XVIII, was sent by the Prussian forces to Paris and was crowned. Napoleon was forced to abdicate. == 1815: Battle of Waterloo and Hundred Days == Napoleon was later exiled to Elba and was nearly assassinated. However, he and 200 other men escaped back to Paris, forced Louis XVIII off the throne and stated the Hundred Days. The former Allies formed the Seventh Coalition, and the Duke of Wellington defeated Napoleon again at the Battle of Waterloo with the help of the Prussian General Gebhard Leberecht von Blucher in 1815. Louis XVIII was returned to the throne again, and the Second Restoration began. ==References== Category:Napoleonic Wars
