From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Chamber music
'''Chamber music''' means music written for small groups of musical instrument. A “wikt:chamber” is a “room” (from the French word “chambre”). Usually the word “chamber” in English means a room in a large house or castle. In the days when people with big houses or castles kept their own musicians, they might have their own private orchestra which played in the large hall. Sometimes there would be a concert in a small chamber. This was called “chamber music”. Chamber music can be any group of instruments from two up to nine. Each player will be playing something different from the others (“one to a part”) unlike an orchestra where there may be many violins all playing the same notes. The word “chamber” is also used for a “chamber orchestra” meaning: a small orchestra. By contrast: a large orchestra is often called a “symphony orchestra”. A small choir may be called a “chamber choir”. But these examples are not usually thought of as “chamber music”. == Words for the size of groups == These words are used to show how many people are playing. They can also be used for groups of singers (vocal solo, duet etc.): * a '''Solo (music)''' is just one player (or singer). This is not usually called chamber music. * a '''duet''' or '''duo''' is a piece for two instruments. The word “duo” usually means a piece in which the two parts are of equal importance. Violin sonatas, flute sonatas etc. usually have piano accompaniment (music) but are not normally called “duets”. Piano duets are for two players at one piano. * a '''Trio (music)''' is a piece for three instruments. Piano trios are pieces for piano, violin and cello. Sometimes trios may be called after one of the instruments, for example: Brahms’ “Horn Trio” is for French horn, violin and piano, not for three horns! * a '''quartet''' is a piece for four instruments. String quartets are the most popular form of chamber music. They are for two violins, viola and cello. A piano quartet would be for piano, violin, viola and cello. * a '''quintet''' is a piece for five instruments. A string quintet can be for two violins, two violas and cello (e.g. Mozart’s string quintets) or it can be for two violins, viola and two cellos (e.g. the one by Franz Schubert). A piano quintet is for piano and string quartet (although Schubert’s Trout Quintet is unusual: it is for piano, violin, viola, cello and double bass). * a '''sextet''' is a piece for six instruments. String sextets are normally for two violins, two violas and two cellos. Francis Poulenc Sextet is for piano and five wind instruments. * a '''septet''' is quite unusual and could be for any combination of instruments. Ludwig van Beethoven, Camille Saint-Saëns and Maurice Ravel all wrote septets, but for different combinations. * an '''octet''' is for eight instruments. Schubert’s Octet is for clarinet, horn, bassoon, string quartet and double bass. Felix Mendelssohn Octet is for two string quartets. * a '''nonet''' - nine instruments - is quite rare. Louis Spohr wrote a nonet for violin, viola, cello, double bass, flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon and French horn. == History == Chamber music for instruments became popular as something different from big orchestras. The orchestra developed in the 17th century and so did chamber music. Composers wrote trio sonatas which were for two high instruments (e.g. two violins) and a continuo accompaniment (usually harpsichord and cello). Arcangelo Corelli and Johann Sebastian Bach wrote many trio sonatas. Joseph Haydn wrote lots of string quartets. He made this combination popular. Mozart and Ludwig van Beethoven also wrote some very great string quartets. The last ones that Beethoven wrote were very difficult to play and to understand, but composers of the 19th century like Franz Schubert, Robert Schumann, Mendelssohn and Johannes Brahms were inspired by them. In the twentieth century some of the best string quartets were written by Béla Bartók and Dmitri Shostakovich. == Playing chamber music == It is great fun to play chamber music because each player is an individual. It is like having a conversation in music. There is no conductor, so each musician has to listen carefully to the others and learn to play together as a small team. The musicians can also hear their own playing better than they can in an orchestra. Some living composers have written a lot of music for young players who are not very advanced. Some of Mozart’s earlier string quartets are not too difficult and make an excellent introduction to chamber music playing. == Example == File:Mozart - Quintet for Piano and Winds - 1. Largo - Allegro moderato.ogg File:Mozart - Quintet for Piano and Winds - 2. Larghetto.ogg File:Mozart - Quintet for Piano and Winds - 3. Allegretto.ogg Category:Music genres
