From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Linga
File:Shivalinga Puja.JPG File:Shiv lingam Tripundra.jpg A '''linga''' or a '''lingam''' is a revered symbol in Hinduism, embodies the essence of formless Shiva. As described in ancient scriptures and texts, the Linga represents an abstract manifestation of Shiva's infinite consciousness and cosmic energy. Its cylindrical shape signifies the boundless and eternal nature of the divine, transcending physical form. Within the sanctum sanctorum of temples and in worship rituals, devotees venerate the Linga as a symbol of the unmanifest aspect of Shiva, recognizing it as a focal point for spiritual reverence and connection to the formless essence of the divine. Thus, the Shiva Linga serves as a potent reminder of the omnipresent and timeless presence of Shiva, beyond the confines of physical attributes or limitations. https://www.shankaracharya.org/shiva_manasa_pooja.php https://sairhythms.sathyasai.org/song/shivaya-namah-shiva-lingaya-namah It is associated with Shiva, supreme god in main Deity of the Hindus. The Hindu scriptures say that a linga represents energy and strength. The Hindu scriptures also say that Shiva took twelve forms as :en:Jyotirlinga, that is, ''a linga of light''. In India, there are twelve places where this form of Shiva is worshiped. The Hindu scriptures also tell about five more forms of lingas. These form of lingas represent the earth, the water, the fire, the air and the sky (or ether). There are five different places in India where Hindus worship these forms of Shiva. These places are located at the following locations: * Kanchipuram: God Shiva’s linga in the form of the earth * Srirangam: God Shiva’s linga in the form of the water * Tiruvannamalai: God Shiva’s linga in the form of the fire * Kalahasti: God Shiva’s linga in the form of the air * Chidambaram: God Shiva’s linga in the form of the sky (or ether) Beside above places, in almost all the towns and villages of India, Shiva’s temples are found. In all such temples, Shiv lingas are worshipped. Also in other places in the World of Ancient history, Shiva Limgam was worshipped. == References == Category:Hinduism
