From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Pac-Man
'''''Pac-Man''''', also known as simply '''''Pac''''', is an video arcade video game that was made by Namco and designed by Toru Iwatani. It was released in 1980, and became very popular in the history of games. In ''Pac-Man'', the player plays as Pac-Man (character), who is a yellow circle with a triangular cut for his mouth, move around a maze. Enemies in the game are the four ghosts, Blinky, Pinky, Inky and Clyde. The goal is to eat every Pac-Dot while not getting caught by the ghosts. For extra points, fruits that appear can also be eaten. When Pac-Man eats a Power Pellet, the ghosts turn blue for a short period of time and can be eaten. The time that the ghosts are blue generally decreases from one stage to the next. Beginning at stage 19, the ghosts do not turn blue at all when a power pellet is eaten. Even though the game has 256 stages, the last level has an impassable Integer overflow, which was fixed for later versions of the game. The player begins the game with 3 lives, and lose one each time Pac-man collides with a ghost. The game ends when all lives are lost. Pac-man gets an extra life once the player gets 10,000 points. The game is called '''''Puck-Man''''', or '''''Puck''''', in Japan. The game was renamed to ''Pac-Man'' in the United States so that nobody could change the "P" to "F". There were many sequels and remakes based on the game. Hanna-Barbera made a Pac-Man (TV series) airing on American Broadcasting Company in the early 1980s. The game was also part of ''Namco Museum'' games. There is a ''Namco Museum Remix'' for the Wii. Pac-Man was one of the first games to have Cutscene. It has 3 cutscenes in total. Music for Pac-Man was made by Shigeichi Ishimura and Toshio Kai. == Playing Features == * 4 Ghosts To Run Away From, With Different Personalities! * A Game-Breaking Glitch On Level 256! (formerly) * Take Turns In Multiplayer! ==Remakes and sequels== ''Pac-Man'' was followed by a series of sequels, remakes, and re-imaginings, and is one of the longest-running video game franchises in history. The first of these was ''Ms. Pac-Man'', developed by the American-based General Computer Corporation and published by Midway in 1982. The character's gender was changed to female in response to ''Pac-Man''s popularity with women, with new mazes, moving bonus items, and faster gameplay being implemented to increase its appeal. ''Ms. Pac-Man'' is one of the best-selling arcade games in North America, where ''Pac-Man'' and ''Ms. Pac-Man'' had become the most successful machines in the history of the amusement arcade industry. Legal concerns raised over who owned the game caused ''Ms. Pac-Man'' to become owned by Namco, who assisted in production of the game. ''Ms. Pac-Man'' inspired its own line of remakes, including ''Ms. Pac-Man Maze Madness'' (2000), and ''Ms. Pac-Man: Quest for the Golden Maze'', and is included in many Namco and ''Pac-Man'' collections for consoles. Namco's own follow-up to the original was ''Super Pac-Man'', released in 1982. This was followed by the Japan-exclusive ''Pac & Pal'' in 1983. Midway produced many other ''Pac-Man'' sequels during the early 1980s, including ''Pac-Man Plus'' (1982), ''Jr. Pac-Man'' (1983), ''Baby Pac-Man'' (1983), and ''Professor Pac-Man'' (1984). Other games include the isometric ''Pac-Mania'' (1987), the side-scrollers ''Pac-Land'' (1984), ''Pac-Man 2: The New Adventures'' (1994), and ''Pac-In-Time'' (1995), the 3D platformer ''Pac-Man World'' (1999), and the puzzle games ''Pac-Attack'' (1991) and ''Pac-Pix'' (2005). Iwatani designed ''Pac-Land'' and ''Pac-Mania'', both of which remain his favorite games in the series. ''Pac-Man Championship Edition'', published for the Xbox 360 in 2007, was Iwatani's final game before leaving the company. Its neon visuals and fast-paced gameplay was met with acclaim, leading to the creation of ''Pac-Man Championship Edition DX'' (2010) and ''Pac-Man Championship Edition 2'' (2016). Coleco's Handheld electronic game Coleco#History versions of the game yielded 1.5million units sold in 1982. Nelsonic Industries produced a ''Pac-Man'' LCD wristwatch game with a simplified maze also in 1982. Namco Networks sold a downloadable Windows PC version of ''Pac-Man'' in 2009 which also includes an enhanced mode which replaces all of the original sprites with the sprites from ''Pac-Man Championship Edition''. Namco Networks made a downloadable bundle which includes its PC version of ''Pac-Man'' and its port of ''Dig Dug'' called ''List of Namco retro video game compilations#Namco All-Stars: Pac-Man and Dig Dug''. In 2010, Namco Bandai announced the release of the game on Windows Phone 7 as an Xbox Live game. For the weekend of May 21–23, 2010, Google changed the logo on its homepage to a playable version of the game in recognition of the 30th anniversary of the game's release. The Google Doodle version of ''Pac-Man'' was estimated to have been played by more than 1billion people worldwide in 2010, so Google later gave the game its own page. In April 2011, Soap Creative published ''World's Biggest Pac-Man'', working together with Microsoft and Namco-Bandai to celebrate ''Pac-Man''s 30th anniversary. It is a multiplayer browser-based game with user-created, interlocking mazes. For April Fools' Day in 2017, Google created a playable of the game on Google Maps where users were able to play the game using the map onscreen. A ''Pac-Man''-themed downloadable content package for ''Minecraft'' was released in 2020 in commemoration of the game's Pac-Man 40th Anniversary. This pack introduced a ghost called 'Creepy', based on the Creeper (Minecraft). ==Technology== The original arcade system board had one Z80A processor, running at 3.072MHz, 16kbyte of ROM and 3kbyte of static RAM. Of those 1kbyte each was for video RAM, color RAM and generic program RAM. There were two custom chips on the board: the 285 sync bus controller and the 284 video RAM addresser, but daughterboards made only from standard parts were also widely used instead. Video output was (analog) component video with composite sync. A further 8kbyte of character ROM was used for characters, background tiles and sprites and an additional 1kbit of static RAM was used to hold 4bpp sprite data for one scanline and was written to during the horizontal blanking period preceding each line. Sprite size was always 16x16 pixels, one of the four colors per pixel was for transparency (of the background). The monitor was installed 90 degree rotated clockwise, the first visible scanline started in the top right corner and ends in the bottom right corner. The horizontal blanking period, which starts after the level indicator at the bottom is drawn, had a duration of 96 pixel clock ticks, enough time to fetch 4 bytes of sprite data per 16 clock ticks for 6 sprites. Although attribute memory exists for them, sprites 0 and 7 are unusable: Their pixel fetch timing windows are occupied by the bottom level indicator (which just precedes the hblank) for sprite 0 and two rows of characters at the top of the screen, which just follow the hblank, for sprite 7. == References == Category:1980 video games Category:Pac-Man Category:Midway video games Category:Namco video games Category:Android (operating system) games Category:Apple II games Category:Arcade games Category:Atari 5200 games Category:Commodore 64 games Category:Famicom Disk System games Category:Game Boy games Category:Game Boy Advance games Category:Game Boy Color games Category:Game Gear games Category:Intellivision games Category:IOS games Category:MacOS games Category:Mobile games Category:MSX games Category:NEC PC-9801 games Category:Nintendo Entertainment System games Category:Nintendo Switch games Category:PlayStation 4 games Category:Video games about food and drink Category:Video games about ghosts Category:Video games developed in Japan Category:Virtual Console games Category:Wii U games Category:Xbox 360 Live Arcade games Category:ZX Spectrum games
