From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Normandy
File:Localisation Normandie.png File:Rollo Rouen.jpg File:Flag of Normandie.svgFile:Arms of William the Conqueror (1066-1087).svg '''Normandy''' () is a region in northern France. People from Normandy are called '''Normans'''. The name Normandy comes from the "Northmen" (), also called Vikings. They came from Scandinavia, and conquered this area in the 9th century and 10th century centuries. The group of people that settled at Rouen and became the Normans was led by Rollo. Normandy is also famous for being the location of the Allies of World War II invasion of France during World War II (See D-Day). The Battle of Normandy was the beginning of the Allied invasion and liberation of Europe from Nazi Germany. == History == Archaeology evidence, such as cave paintings, show that people lived in Normandy in Pre-history.''The 20th Century A-GI: Dictionary of World Biography'', Volume 7, ed. Frank N. Magill (London; New York: Routledge, 1999), p. 456 The Gouy and Orival cave paintings also show people lived in Seine-Maritime. Many megaliths can be found in Normandy, most of them built in the same way. Groups of Belgae and Celts, known as Gauls, invaded Normandy in the 4th century BC and 3rd century BC. Much of our knowledge about this group comes from Julius Caesar’s book ''de Bello Gallico''. Caesar wrote about many groups among the Belgae who lived different areas in :en:wikt:agrarian towns surrounded by City wall. In 57 BC the Gauls worked together and tried to fight Caesar’s army. They were led by Vercingetorix. The Normans lost an important fight at Alesia. They did not stop fighting until 51 BC, when Caesar finished his :wikt:conquest of Gaul. Normandy was part of Armorica when it was ruled by Romans. The duchy of Normandy began in the year 911.R. Allen Brown, ''The Normans and the Norman Conquest'' (Woodbridge: Boydell Press, 1998), p. 15 Charles the Simple, King of France gave land near Rouen and the lower Seine to Rollo, leader of a band of Vikings. ''The Annals of Flodoard of Reims 919–966'', ed. & trans. Steven Fanning; Bernard S. Bachrach (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2011), pp. xx-xxi This treaty is often called St. Clair-sur-Epte. More land was given in 924 and 933. The Duke of Normandy, William the Conqueror, invaded England in 1066 after King Edward the Confessor died. William the Conqueror thought he should be King of England. But Harold Godwinson had Coronation himself king. King Harold's Anglo-Saxon army and William's Norman army fought at the Battle of Hastings on October 14 1066. King Harold was killed in the battle. On December 25 1066 William was crowned King of England as 'William I'. The historic duchy is made of two regions of France: Upper Normandy and Lower Normandy. The Channel Islands are part of the duchy of Normandy. But they are not part of France. The whole duchy was not part of France for a long time. In 1205, Philip II of France took away all the French land from King John of England.Maurice Powicke, ''The Loss of Normandy: 1189 - 1204 ; Studies in the History of the Angevin Empire'' (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1999), p. 283 Then, Normandy was a province of France. == World War II == File:Cloud of ships near normandy coast.jpg During the Second World War (1939–1945) Normandy was part of German-occupied France.Dominique François, ''Normandy: From D-Day to the Breakout: June 6-July 31, 1944'' (Norwalk, CT: MBI Publishing Company LLC, 2013), p. 12 The town of Dieppe was the site of the unsuccessful Dieppe Raid by Canadian Army and British Army.''Field Marshal Bernard Law Montgomery, 1887-1976: A Selected Bibliography'', ed. Colin F. Baxter (Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1999), p. 32 The Allies (Britain, the United States, and Canada) launched the D-Day landings on 6 June 1944 under the code name 'Operation Overlord'.''The Normandy Campaign 1944: Sixty Years On'', ed. John Buckley (London; New York: Routledge, 2006), p. 170 About 12,000 planes dropped paratroopers before dawn. At dawn the Normandy landings began. Nearly 160,000 Allied soldiers came to the beaches, in about 7,000 ships and landing craft. The Germans were defending their fortifications above the beaches. Caen, Cherbourg, Carentan, Falaise and other Norman towns had many casualties in the Battle of Normandy. The German defenders fought aggressively but were constantly pushed back. The battle for Normandy continued until the closing of the Falaise pocket.Russell Hart, ''Clash of Arms: How the Allies Won in Normandy'' (Boulder: Rienner, 2001), pp. 391–92 The liberation of Le Havre followed. That allowed the breakout of Allied forces into France and finally Germany and was a significant :en:wikt:turning point in the war. It led to the restoration of the French government in France. The last bit of Normandy was liberated only on 9 May 1945, at the end of the war un Europe, when the German occupation of the Channel Islands effectively ended. ==Geography== File:Aiguille1.jpg The historical duchy of Normandy occupied the lower Seine-Maritime area, the Pays de Caux and the region to the west through the Pays d'Auge as far as the Cotentin Peninsula. The region is bordered along the northern coasts by the English Channel. There are granite cliffs in the west and limestone cliffs in the east. There are also long stretches of beach in the center of the region. The unique bocage hedges are typical of the western areas of Normandy.Judy Smith, ''Holiday Walks in Normandy'' (Wilmslow: Sigma Leisure, 2001), p. 63 The highest point is the Signal d'Écouves at in the Massif armoricain.Barbara Eperon, ''Normandy Picardy & Pas De Calais'' (Lincolnwood, IL: Passport Books, 1997), p. 76 Normandy is lightly :wikt:forest. Eure has the most wooded areas with about 20% being forest.Judy Smith, ''Holiday Walks in Normandy'' (Wilmslow: Sigma Leisure, 2001), p. 119 The population of Normandy today is around 3.45 million. == Notes == == References == Category:Normandy Category:2016 establishments in France
