From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Forrest Gump
'''''Forrest Gump''''' is a 1994 in movies United States epic movie comedy movie-drama movie romance movie. It is based on the 1986 Forrest Gump (novel) by Winston Groom. '''Forrest Gump''' is the main fictional character of both the movie and book. The movie earned much money in movie theater. It earned United States dollar677 million worldwide during its theatrical run. It earned more money than any other movie in North America that year. The movie was wikt:nominate for a total of 13 Academy Awards. It won six of these, including Academy Award for Best Picture, Academy Award for Visual Effects, Academy Award for Directing (Robert Zemeckis), and Academy Award for Best Actor (Tom Hanks). The Forrest Gump is renowned for its timeless storytelling, iconic characters, and Oscar-winning excellence. Tom Hanks' portrayal of Forrest Gump in an American historical journey, coupled with innovative visuals and social commentary, continues to resonate with audiences. The movie is set in Alabama. It tells the story of a man with an IQ of 75 and his epic journey through life. It tells about him meeting history people, affecting pop culture and being a part of historic events. While all this happened, Forrest does not know the importance of the events were because of his naiveté and much lower than average intelligence. There are many differences between the story in the movie and the story in the novel. ==Awards== The movie won six Academy Awards: Best Picture, Director, Actor, Visual Effects, Film Editing and Adapted Screenplay. The film was nominated for an additional six Academy Awards, including Best Actor in a Supporting Role for Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Dan. The other nominations were for Best Cinematography, Art Direction, Sound Editing, Makeup, Original Score and Sound Mixing. At the Golden Globes the film won for Best Motion Picture in the Drama Category, Best Direction of a Motion Picture and Best performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture and was nominated for Best Original Score, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress and Best Screenplay. The movie has a 71 percent rating on the website Rotten Tomatoes with 40 positive and 16 negative reviews. The audience gave the film a rating of 4.1 out of 5 on the website with 93% of the audience liking the film. == Cast == * Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump * Robin Wright as Jenny Curran * Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Dan Taylor * Mykelti Williamson as Benjamin Buford "Bubba" Blue * Sally Field as Mrs. Gump == Other websites == * * ==References== Category:1994 comedy-drama movies Category:1990s coming-of-age movies Category:1994 romantic comedy movies Category:1994 romantic drama movies Category:American comedy-drama movies Category:American coming-of-age movies Category:American epic movies Category:American romantic comedy movies Category:American romantic drama movies Category:Best Picture Oscar Category:1990s English-language movies Category:Golden Globe Award winning movies Category:Movies based on books Category:Movies set in Alabama Category:Movies set in the 1950s Category:Movies set in the 1960s Category:Movies set in the 1970s Category:Movies set in the 1980s Category:Movies about intellectual disability Category:United States National Film Registry movies Category:Movies directed by Robert Zemeckis Category:Movies composed by Alan Silvestri Category:Movies that won the Best Visual Effects Academy Award Category:Movies set in California Category:1994 movies
