From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (video game)
'''''Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic''''' is a video game developed by BioWare. It was released in 2003. The game has a sequel, titled ''Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords''. == Description == The game, also known as ''KotOR'', is a role-playing game. Developed using BioWare's engine ''Aurora'', the game is set in the fictional universe of ''Star Wars''. The story takes place four thousand years before the Battle of Yavin, 40 years after the war with Exar Kun (circa 3,956 BBY). Darth Revan has been killed by his apprentice, Darth Malak, who has taken the mantle of Dark Lord of the Sith. Malak is continuing the war against the Old Republic, using numerous battleships. The Jedi Order sees its hope in Bastila Shan, a young female Jedi who is skilled in the art called ''Battle Meditation''. With that power, she can optimize the performance of the Jedi troops and the battleships. Also, an unnamed soldier (the player chooses the name) comes under attention of the Jedi Council. Since it is a roleplaying game, the player can choose which class he wants to be. He can choose between soldier, scout, and scoundrel. The choice affects the statistics of the character (strength, agility, etc.). Also, the player can choose their character's gender and face. The player must follow several main objectives, with many other minor missions. The player, while travelling on several planets, will meet some people who join him in his quest. A number up to 8 companions can join the player: Trask Ulgo, Carth Onasi, Bastila Shan, Mission Vao, Zaalbar, Canderous Ordo, Juhani, Jolee Bindo. The main goal is to find the Star Forge, a powerful battle station that builds an endless fleet, which is used against the Republic. The player also has to kill Darth Malak. == Characters == The main character (the player) is entirely customizable. Face, gender and class can be chosen from a series of menus. One later discovers that they are Darth Reven, but still go by the original own name. The player will meet some companions (playable characters, or PCs) during the adventure. * '''Carth Onasi''' - A Republican soldier, veteran of the Mandalorian Wars. Class: Soldier. * '''Bastila Shan''' - A young female Jedi, who will look after the player. Class: Jedi Sentinel. * '''Mission Vao''' - A young Twi'lek, expert hacker. Class: Scoundrel. * '''Zaalbar''' - A Wookiee, friend of Mission. Class: Explorer. * '''Canderous Ordo''' - A Mandalorian warrior, veteran of the Mandalorian Wars. Class: Soldier. * '''Juhani''' - A Cathar (human with cat-like features) female Jedi. Class: Jedi Guardian. * '''Jolee Bindo''' - An old human Jedi. Class: Jedi Consular. * '''T3-M4''' - An astromech droid. Class: Droid. * '''HK-47''' - An assassin droid. Class: Droid. The player will also meet other minor characters (non-playable characters, or NPCs). * '''Darth Malak''' - The Dark Lord of the Sith and true "boss" of the game. * '''Darth Bandon''' - Malak's apprentice. * '''Calo Nord''' - A short bounty hunter. * '''Jedi Masters''' of the council. Category:2003 video games Category:Star Wars games Category:LucasArts games Category:BioWare games Category:Android (operating system) games Category:IOS games Category:MacOS games Category:Nintendo Switch games Category:Role-playing video games Category:Single-player video games Category:Video game prequels Category:Video games about amnesia Category:Windows games Category:Xbox games
