From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Unification of Germany
File:Map-deutsches-kaiserreich.png The '''Unification of Germany''' occurred in the 19th century. Until then, there had been many states in Central Europe. Some of them were very small, possibly no more than from one border to the other. Many Germans wanted a nation that would be united, powerful and influential. The leaders of Germany believed that they should be part of a new German Empire, which led to the strategic battles and alliances that united Germany. The unification took place on January 18, 1871. After the Franco-Prussian War, the German princes proclaimed the German nation at the Palace of Versailles, France, at the Hall of Mirrors. The unification joined many independent German states, which became the German Empire. The Chancellor of Prussia, Otto von Bismarck, became the Chancellor of the Germany. The unification of Germany had begun many years earlier, during the Napoleonic Wars. At the Battle of Leipzig in 1813, which is also called the Battle of Nations, many of the German states joined Russian Empire, Sweden and Austrian Empire to defeat Napoleon's army. In 1815, the Congress of Vienna ended the Napoleonic Wars. Austria remained the most politically powerful German state. Prussia emerged as Austria's political and diplomatic rival. There were many problems in unifying the German states. Not all politicians wanted unification. Some feared that it would give Austria and Prussia too much power among the many states. There were also problems in deciding who would collect taxes and how much they would be. == Background == Before the creation of the modern German State, there were hundreds of small duchies and kingdoms. Many of them were part of the Holy Roman Empire. In 800 AD, Pope Leo III made Franks King Charlemagne the first Holy Roman Emperor. In the 18th century, the hundreds of rulers of parts of the Holy Roman Empire were practically independent, seldom had to obey the Emperor and often made war against one other or against the Emperor. During the Napoleonic Wars, the empire was abolished. Napoleon made a new satellite state, the Confederation of the Rhine. He was soon defeated, and the Congress of Vienna reorganized the German states into a new German Confederation. Later, one of the aims of the German revolutions of 1848–1849 was to unite the Germans. Otto von Bismarck's North German Confederation replaced the old German Confederation until he converted it into the German Empire. == References == Category:19th century in Germany Category:Nationalism
