From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Edith Roosevelt
| office = First Lady of the United States | term_label = In role | term_start = September 14, 1901 | term_end = March 4, 1909 | president = Theodore Roosevelt | predecessor = Ida Saxton McKinley | successor = Helen Herron Taft | term_label1 = In role | vicepresident1 = Theodore Roosevelt | term_start1 = March 4, 1901 | term_end1 = September 14, 1901 | predecessor1 = Jennie Tuttle Hobart | successor1 = Cornelia Cole Fairbanks | office2 = First Lady of New York | governor2 = Theodore Roosevelt | term_start2 = January 1, 1899 | term_end2 = December 31, 1900 | term_label2 = In role | predecessor2 = Lois Black | successor2 = Linda Odell | birth_name = Edith Kermit Carow | birth_date = | birth_place = Norwich, Connecticut, U.S. | death_date = | death_place = Oyster Bay (hamlet), New York, U.S. | resting_place = Youngs Memorial Cemetery | parents = | spouse = | signature = Edith Roosevelt Signature.svg | office1 = Second ladies and gentlemen of the United States | children = }} '''Edith Kermit Carow Roosevelt''' (August 6, 1861 – September 30, 1948) was First Lady of the United States from 1901 to 1909 as the wife of Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th U.S. president. She was the Second ladies and gentlemen of the United States from March to September 1901 when her husband was vice president. She also briefly served as the first lady of New York from 1899 to 1900 when her husband was governor. Carow grew up alongside the Roosevelt family and married Theodore Roosevelt in 1886. They established a home in Sagamore Hill, where Edith had five children with Theodore, and they moved back and forth between New York and Washington, D.C., as Theodore's political career grew over the following years. Edith became a public figure her husband was elected governor of New York. Her husband was chosen as the Republican vice-presidential candidate for the 1900 United States presidential election. He became vice president in March 1901, and she became the second lady of the United States where she would serve the role for just six months. After the Assassination of William McKinley, she officially become the nation's first lady ascended the presidency to become the 26th president of the United States. == Biography == === Early life and education === Edith Kermit Carow was born on August 6, 1861, in Norwich, Connecticut. She was the first of two daughters born to Charles Carow and Gertrude Elizabeth Tyler. Though her family was wealthy, her father was an unsuccessful businessman as well as a cgambler and an alcoholic and her mother was a hypochondriac. Throughout her childhood, her family lived with many relatives. Carow was unhappy with her childhood, and she rarely spoke of her parents throughout her adult life. The Carows were close friends with their neighbors, the Roosevelt family. Edith's early schooling took place at the Roosevelt home, as well as the Dodsworth School. Corinne Roosevelt was Edith's closest childhood friend, and Edith was often brought along with the Roosevelt children in their family activities. In 1865, At four years old, Carow stood with the Roosevelts on their balcony to watch Abraham Lincoln's funeral. The Carows moved uptown in 1871, where Edith attended Miss Comstock's School. She soon became very religious. She also learned to speak fluent French and studied English literature on the works of William Shakespeare. === Marriage and children === Edith and Theodore traveled to London, where they official married at St George's, Hanover Square, on December 2, 1886. They spent their honeymoon in Europe over the winter, going to France and then visiting Edith's family at their new home in Italy before returning to England. The Roosevelts returned to New York in March 1887. They stayed with Theodore's sister Bamie Roosevelt for the next two months, then moved into Leeholm, the Oyster Bay house that Theodore had planned to live in with his first wife. The house was renamed Sagamore Hill. They had five children together:Theodore Roosevelt Jr. (1887–1944) – a prominent soldier and politician. Kermit Roosevelt (1889–1943) – a writer and explorer. Ethel Roosevelt (1891–1960) – a socialite and philanthropist. Archie Roosevelt (1894–1977) – a decorated soldier and banker. Quentin Roosevelt (1897–1918) – a fighter pilot in World War I, who tragically died in combat. == First lady of New York == File:Edith Roosevelt.jpg Theodore was elected governor in 1898, where Edith served as the state's first lady when Theodore Roosevelt became governor in 1899. At her husband's inauguration as governor, Edith held a bouquet of flowers in each hand so she would not have to shake hands with the thousands of visitors. She renovated the New York State Executive Mansion after moving, making it suitable home for her children and she redecorated it with new artwork. As the 1900 United States presidential election approached, her husband considered running for Vice President of the United States. Edith was uncomfortable with the idea as it would again cause the family to move to Washington, D.C. Edith also believe the office was useless and less powerful than the governorship. Theodore attended the 1900 Republican National Convention and was chosen as the vice-presidential candidate to join the Republican Party (United States)'s presidential ticket. == Second lady of the United States == Edith attended Second inauguration of William McKinley in Washington, D.C. on March 4, 1901. Edith and her children had lunch with President William McKinley, watched the inaugural parade, and returned to Sagamore Hill. Edith moved to Washington, D.C., and took on the role of Second Lady of the United States. During this time, Edith mostly stayed out of the public spotlight, but she was still an influential figure in supporting her husband’s political work. In August 1901, Edith took her children on a vacation to the Adirondack Mountains while Theodore was on a speaking tour. She got a telephone call from her husband telling her that President McKinley Assassination of William McKinley. McKinley died on September 14, 1901. Only six months into his term as vice president, Theodore became president of the United States, and Edith became the nation's first lady. == First lady of the United States == File:Mrs._Roosevelt,_Quentin.jpg As first lady, Edith's daily mornings consisted of answering her mail, reading the newspaper, shopping, and studying French. In the evenings, she spent time with her children and went horseback riding with her husband. Despite the tribulations of White House life, Edith and Theodore adored one another and maintained a strong relationship. Each Tuesday, Edith organized a meeting with the wives of all the Cabinet of the United States to run concurrently with cabinet meetings. Here they planned and budgeted White House entertainment, and they made sure the wives' entertainment did not overshadow the White House. As first lady, she first attended the State funeral of William McKinley. Upon entering the White House, she changed the furniture in the living quarters and then promptly slept for two days. As the presidential family, the Roosevelts no longer had to worry about money and Edith soon enjoyed her life as first lady. For her sitting room, Edith used an oval library to the president's office. She could watch over him and scold him if he was working too late. Edith hired caterers, instead of preparing meals herself. This allowed her to lighten her schedule and to avoid potential criticism for poor catering decisions. Edith took personal responsibility for the care of the mansion, rather than hiring a housekeeper. File:Theodore Roosevelt and family, 1903.jpg As first lady, Edith continued to care for her children. She was a caregiver for her children and her husband whenever they fell ill or were injured, which happened many times throughout her tenure. Quentin's childhood friend Earle Looker later wrote that Edith seemed to regret that her role as first lady prevented her from being more active in the children's play. She hoped for another child, but her two pregnancies in 1902 and 1903 both resulted in miscarriages. For two months beginning in April 1903, Theodore went on a trip to the west. Edith cared for the children on her own during this time. She was first on a cruise aboard the USS Mayflower (PY-1) and later returned to the White House. Edith worried about Theodore's safety the entire time he was gone. Once he returned, she was relieved. Edith also made sure to spend time to her stepdaughter Alice, who felt neglected by Theodore. === White House renovations === Edith saw the construction of the White House of a feature long desired by past first ladies: separate living quarters seperated from the executive offices and public areas, allowing the family to live uninterrupted by visitors. This separation came with the establishment of the West Wing and the East Wing. Aware that expensive spending could provoke controversy, she reduced costs when possible, having older furniture brought in rather than purchasing newer items. The largest change was in the East Room, which was entirely redesigned, including a new ceiling, wallpaper, carpeting, and three electric crystal chandeliers. She also had a tennis court installed, hoping that it would encourage her husband to maintain a healthy weight. The Roosevelts moved back into the White House on November 4, 1902, as renovations finished over the following month. After the State Dining Room of the White House was expanded to seat over one hundred guests, Edith purchased more china for the White House. She then ensured the continuation of the White House china collection that had been started by former first lady Caroline Harrison. She also organized the creation of a portrait gallery that featured official portraits of the first ladies. Since then, every first lady has had an official portrait created. === Charitable work and the arts === File:Edith Roosevelt - Brady-Handy.jpg Edith donated handkerchiefs and other items to be auctioned for charity during the first two years as first lady to facilitate the donations. She stopped after the handkerchiefs were scrutinized and criticized, which caused her a great deal of emotional distress. She also made anonymous donations from her personal funds to those in need. Edith frequently did needlework for charity, participating in the St. Hilda Sewing Circle with Oyster Bay's Christ Episcopal Church. She voiced her support for the Audubon Society's efforts to end the use of decorative Plume (feather) on women's hats in 1905, and she joined the New York Assembly of Mothers in 1907. Edith sponsored a variety of classical instrumentalists and singers, giving them a venue to perform at the White House. She enjoyed classical music, including the work of Richard Wagner. Edith hosted the famous German composer Engelbert Humperdinck (composer) when he visited the United States, which led to her appearance at a charity performance of Humperdinck's Hansel and Gretel (opera) for The Legal Aid Society. She also supported the theater and allowed the performance of plays at the White House at a time when actors were seen as lower class. == Post-White House life == File:Mrs._Theodore_Roosevelt_LCCN2009631491_(cropped).jpg After leaving the White House in 1909, Edith returned to Sagamore Hill while Theodore and Kermit went on a safari. Her children had all moved out except for Ethel, who had just reached adulthood. The solitude became too much for Edith after a few months, so she took Ethel, Quentin, and Archibald on a trip to Europe, where they visited France, Switzerland, and Italy, including a stay at the home of Edith's sister. They returned in November, only for Edith and Ethel to leave for Egypt the following March to reunite with Theodore and go on another European tour. They returned to New York in June 1910, and for the first time in nearly two years, Edith, Theodore, and their children were all reunited. Theodore began embarking on speaking tours shortly after their return, again leaving Edith alone until she eventually decided to accompany him in March 1911. With her life having settled and her children all grown, Edith found herself wishing for a grandchild. On August 6, 1911, when Theodore III and his wife Eleanor Butler Roosevelt had a daughter named Grace Roosevelt McMillan. Edith was severely injured the following month after being thrown off of her horse. She was unconscious for the next two days and underwent physical rehabilitation for several months thereafter. She temporarily lost her sense of taste from the accident, and she permanently lost her sense of smell. As she recovered, Edith and Ethel left for a weeks-long trip to the Caribbean in February, giving her a chance to get away as Theodore again became active politically. Edith strongly disliked the idea of Theodore returning to politics. She urged him not to run for president in the 1912 United States presidential election, assuring that he would "never be president again". When her attempts to discourage him failed, she assisted him in speech writing and accompanied him to the 1912 Progressive National Convention and did not campaign for him. Edith again feared for Theodore's safety as he resumed his political activity, and her fears were validated when he Attempted assassination of Theodore Roosevelt by John Schrank while campaigning. === Widowhood === Theodore's health declined in 1918, and he was hospitalized on November 11. Edith stayed by him each day until he died on January 6, 1919, at 60 years old. As was tradition for the widow, she stayed inside while the funeral took place two days later. From February through May, she went to Europe to see her sons, stay with her sister, and visit Quentin's grave. She then accompanied Kermit on a vacation in South America that December. Both of these trips were fueled by a need to avoid memories of Theodore at Oyster Bay, but she began traveling for leisure as time passed. The following decade was marked by further ventures around the world. When the 1920 United States presidential election approached, Edith campaigned for Republican Warren G. Harding. She made appeals to women specifically, as they had just been Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. In January 1921, Edith traveled the Caribbean, including a voyage deep into the jungle of British Guiana with a party of six to see Kaieteur Falls. She joined Archibald on a trip to Europe in January 1922, where they visited Paris, Berlin, and then London, taking her first airplane trip to the latter. From Europe, she traveled on her own to South Africa. Edith hosted a party for Theodore's friends in 1922 in which they visited his grave and shared their memories of him, which became a yearly tradition. After hearing that her grandson Richard Derby Jr. had died in late 1922, she traveled to Pará, Brazil, the following January to distract herself. She traveled through Connecticut in April 1923, where she visited her ancestors' hometown Brooklyn, Connecticut. == Later life and death == Edith's heart condition, diagnosed as paroxysmal tachycardia, left her in pain for hours at a time as it became more severe in the 1930s. She died at the age of 87 on September 30, 1948, a day after she fell into a coma. She was buried next to her husband at Youngs Memorial Cemetery in Oyster Bay. == Official websites == == References == Category:1861 births Category:1948 deaths Category:First Ladies of the United States Category:Second Ladies of the United States Category:People from Norwich, Connecticut Category:Theodore Roosevelt Category:Deaths from cardiovascular disease
