From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.downtown@enron.com
Date: Thu, 14 Jun 2001 16:43:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Bring Your Child To Work Day - June 29th
Bring Your Child To Work Day Friday, June 29th 8:30am-11:30am Several activities have been planned so you and your child(ren) will enjoy an exciting and memorable day at Enron. Below is a short description of activities along with an attached agenda. Registration for this event will begin Monday, June 18th through Thursday, June 28th in the lobby from 11 am - 1pm each day. Lunch will be provided by James Coney Island for $5 per person Guidelines for participation: (1) Children 6 years and older only. (2) Participation is limited to children of Enron or contract employees. (3) Participation in the event is with immediate supervisor,s permission only. (4) Parents MUST stay with their children at all times. Children will not be allowed to participate without their parent in attendance. (5) Child must wear distributed wristband at all times. It takes many people to create a successful event for Enron's children. We are looking for volunteers to guarantee this. If you have interest in helping with any of the below activities, please sign up at the lobby from 11am-1pm each day. Antioch Park Bazaar 9:00am-11:30am ongoing in Antioch Park Children will have a choice of a variety of activities. Are your children interested in the environment? They will have an opportunity to plant a Texas native plant in a take-home pot while listening to a representative from Houston's Natural Legacy. All children love to see animals. Golden Retriever Rescue and the Bright & Beautiful Therapy Dog Association will bring their loveable dogs to amuse the children. Houston Police Department will also bring their K-9 investigative dogs along with SWAT, DARE, patrol cars and police motorcycles. Enron Federal Credit Union Bingo Sessions every 30 minutes beginning at 9:00am in EB5C2 Come by the Credit Union Booth in EB5C2 and play the MONEY Game (Bingo Style). Kids will have fun playing the MONEY Game and learning about the Credit Union. They will also have a chance to win a fun prize and receive a cool giveaway! Stranger Danger Sessions every 30 minutes beginning at 9:00am in EB4C2 Each day it seems we hear about another child crime. Do your children know enough to protect themselves and avoid the danger? This course will increase their awareness of the dangers in their surrounding areas. The facilitator will deliver safety techniques they can use immediately. The children will also be finger printed by HPD for your records. Body Shop 30 minutes sessions beginning at 9:00am in The Body Shop For this company coordinated event, the Body Shop will allow children in the facility. Certified instructors will be in the gym to teach Enron children about the benefits of good fitness and nutrition. Interval Aerobic classes will be available for children 6-12 years old; Kickboxing classes will begin every 30 minutes for children 12 years and up. Parents can enjoy a free 5 minute massage while their children are in class. A 10 minute tour of the facilities will be available after each aerobic session. IT Events 30 minute sessions beginning at 9:00am in EB568, EB572, EB564 Three different classes have been developed for any child 9 years and older. They can attend one or all the courses. First, they may attend a Power Point class where each child will build their own business card. Another option provides your child with an opportunity to write a thank you note to Jeff Skilling using Microsoft word. The third option is to attend a course providing each child with an opportunity to learn how to send an email to their parent using Microsoft Outlook. Build Your Resume Two one hour sessions beginning at 9am and 10:30am in EB20C2 What skills do you need to find a job? The children (Ages 9 and up) will learn to write their accomplishments in a resume format. They will also practice "selling" their best qualities and achievements. A special 30 minute session is designed for children 6-8 years old beginning at 10:00am. Manners for Super Kids One hour sessions at 9:00am and 10:00am in The Energizer Can you shake hands with unquestionable authority? Has your body language ever been misunderstood? Children will have a chance to brush up on their social skills with a Manners for Super Kids class which includes an exciting Match Game. SPCA Course One hour sessions at 9:00am and 10:30am in EB560 Animals are intelligent with personalities and feelings. The 6-8 year old course will look at how animals and people communicate. It will help the children build a more effective relationship with their pet. In the 9 and up class, the children will experience a variety of activities focusing on pet care. The facilitator will focus on the programs they offer in the neighborhoods and community. Children will also learn about the importance of spading and neutering their pets.
