From: crcommunications@caiso.com
To: 20participants@caiso.com
Date: Thu, 22 Mar 2001 00:27:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: CAISO Notification:  Action Required - Scheduling Instructions in
	 Preparation for Daylight Savings Time Transition 4/1/01
Market Participants: Please assure that this information is forwarded to your respective Pre-Scheduling, Real Time Dispatch and Metering Operations!!! The transition to Daylight Savings Time is rapidly approaching. In preparation ISO Market Operations has provided the following Scheduling Procedure to help assure a smooth transition. The Scheduling Procedure is the same one used in 2000. CAISO Scheduling Procedure for Daylight Savings Time Transition The following is a brief explanation of how SC's should prepare schedules for submission to the CAISO Scheduling Infrastructure (SI) system for the upcoming conversion to Daylight Savings Time commencing on 4/1/01. When submitting preferred or revised preferred schedules for Trade Date 4/1/01, which is considered a "Short" day because an hour is lost, SC's should schedule all 24 hours of information with the data for HE03 being zeroed out in the template or blanked out when using the CAISO SI Web Workspace to submit schedules. The ISO's System Applications (SA) do not read or write data from/to the SI database for the "Short" day's HE03. Therefore, no data will be sent to settlements for this hour. Consequently, settlements will have only 23 records for this "Short" day, Trade Date 4/1/01. If you have additional Scheduling questions for this trade date, please contact Ginger Seitles, ISO Market Operations, @ (916)351-4420. CAISO Metering Procedure for Daylight Savings Time Transition The ISO receives all Settlement Quality Meter Data (SQMD) in PST, year around. Therefore, the transition to DST should require no modification to meter data submission. However, please confirm and assure that all SQMD meter data continues to be submitted to ISO MDAS in PST. If you have additional ISO Metering questions for this trade date, please contact ISO MDAS OPERATIONS, @ (916) 351-4431. For any other questions please contact your Client Representative. CRCommunications Client Relations Communications
