From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all_ena_egm_eim@enron.com
Date: Thu, 22 Feb 2001 16:29:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: EnTouch Newsletter
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS EGM Fundamentals Lowell Bezanis joins us from EIG (Energy Intelligence Group). Lowell will be a great resource for the group as he has had substantial experience covering Middle East issues, as well having great contacts with the trade press. The EGM fundamentals site has moved into production. Our new address is http://egmfundy.corp.enron.com Comments and suggestion should be directed to Heather Purcell at 54057. Heather is also managing our enterprise-wide contract with PIRA for oil, electricity, natural gas and natural gas liquids. EIM Finance The primary focus for the EIM Finance Group is to assist transaction teams in the execution of complicated transactions in which Enron capital is being deployed. This may consist of executing the funding of specific transactions in either the bank or capital markets. Currently the team is focusing on the creation of several off-balance sheet funding vehicles that can be drawn upon to fund multiple transactions, as well as the financing of the recently announced Daishowa acquisition. In addition, the group is focusing on the creation of an inventory finance vehicle that can be utilized to fund multiple steel (or other commodity) inventory financings. Bill Brown leads the group and notes, "This is a very exciting time at Enron. EIM is a great example of utilizing the Enron wholesale business model in commodities other than gas and power. The ability to finance complicated transactions by using financial engineering skills developed around Enron creates a competitive advantage to transaction teams and will allow us to develop new products and fund those products competitively without using large amounts of Enron capital." IN THE NEWS &Vision is dandy, but sustainable company excellence comes from a huge stable of able managers. If you don't believe me, then go read First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently (Simon & Schuster, 1999), by Gallup execs Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman. Here's a boiled-down version of what they found: Great managers are an organization's glue. They create and hold together the scores of folks who power high-performing companies.8 )Tom Peters, Fast Company, a Subsidiary of U.S. News & World Report (2/20/01). Revised Presentation Library Link: You can access the Analyst Slides at the URL below. Simply go to this URL, click on the ENTER button, and you have access to all the presentations made at this meeting.http://172.28.92.190/bowne/ WELCOME New Hires EGM - Leticia McAshan/Financial Operations ENA - Leann Walton/Research Transfers ENA ) Joseph Wagner, Marcus Edmonds, Santiago Garcia, Stacy Dunegan, Shane Green, Roman Zadorozhny, Praveen Mellacheruvu, Seksan Kiatsupaibul, Charles Ward, Victor Munoz Paulette Roberts EGM ) Steven Jacobellis, Margaret Cowan, Alisa Green EIM ) Deborah Chance, Eugenio Perez NUGGETS & NOTES &Our Vision for 2001 is to go from &The World,s Leading Energy Company8 to (. &The World,s Leading Company8 -- Jeff Skilling at the All-Employee meeting. "Can someone tell me which bank is dying to lend to the steel industry?" -- Bill Brown, Vice President/Finance EIM &There,s no such thing as a Comp emergency.8 ) Sheila Knudsen, Vice President/Human Resources ENA NEWS FROM THE GLOBAL FLASH Weather Deal Enron has traded a weather derivative deal with the Rock Garden restaurant in London's Covent Garden. Based on a 'cold day' index, the deal protects the Rock Garden from a summer that has too many days below a certain temperature between March and June. Once a number of days has been reached, the Rock Garden will receive a payout for each further day below that reference temperature. The payouts have been weighted to reflect the greater earning potential in some months compared to others. In a blind auction, Enron beat six other risk takers to price the deal. LEGAL STUFF The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries. It is intended for internal use only and should not be disclosed.
