From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2001 04:07:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: FPL Group, Entergy Merger May Be in Trouble
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com [IMAGE] Rapidpartsmart is the newest, most powerful online parts search engine in the power industry. Rapidpartsmart is the complete source to locate, buy and sell engineered parts worldwide. Rapidpartsmart integrates over 5 million supply items into asset management and work management systems to ensure that you know all supply sources, all the time. Rapidpartsmart increases supply options, reduces outage risks and cuts inventory investment. Contact John Kelly at (727) 669-3006 for more information or go to www.rapidpartsmart.com [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 19, 2001 FPL Group, Entergy Merger May Be in Trouble by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis FPL Group Inc. (NYSE: FPL) and Entergy Corp. (NYSE: ETR), whose proposed merger would create the largest power distribution company in the United States (6.3 million customers), said their deal has hit some significant snags. In a joint statement, Juno Beach, Fla.-based FPL Group and Louisiana-based Entergy said "certain issues have arisen in connection with their pending merger, including governance structure/value-related issues and integration of the two companies going forward." The companies said they will be meeting in the near future to address the issues, but did not elaborate. They added that they would have no further comment on the status of the merger at the present time. Analysis: FPL Group and Entergy join what appears to be a growing list of companies experiencing problems with pending mergers. Just within the last month, Con Edison and Northeast Utilities announced significant problems related to their proposed partnership that most likely will find resolution only in a courtroom. Following that, we heard about problems surrounding Sierra Pacific Resources' ability to finance its pending purchase of Portland General from Enron. However, the fact that the "merger of equals" between FPL Group and Entergy may not proceed is big news as it represents the largest partnership among energy companies that the U.S. energy industry has ever witnessed. First, let me provide some background. FPL Group and Entergy Corp. announced their merger in July 2000. The $27 billion partnership reportedly will create the largest power company in the nation, eclipsing the now-completed merger between PECO and Commonwealth Edison that created Exelon Corp. The new company, which will be named at a later date, will own and operate generating capacity of more than 48,000 megawatts, and as noted will serve more than 6.3 million customers. Although this is referred to as a "merger of equals," FPL is purchasing Entergy. FPL Group shareholders will own 57 percent of the common equity of the combined company, and Entergy shareholders will own 43 percent. The benefits of this merger are too many to name here, but some advantages*beyond the staggering earnings potential*certainly stand out. First, the combined company will be a leader in wholesale generation and one of the nation's largest independent power producers with nearly 10,000 megawatts of unregulated generating capacity. Related to this is Entergy's announced joint venture with Koch Industries, under which Entergy gains 10,000 miles of natural-gas pipeline assets and becomes a world leader in weather derivatives. Second, the two companies come together with an important affinity in their competitive approaches. Both have divested their non-core businesses, and are focused on expanding utility operations and generation businesses. Along these lines, both companies support emission-free energy, with Entergy being particularly strong in nuclear and FPL Group being strong in renewable energies (particularly wind). Third, the regulated business of Florida Power & Light*FPL Group's subsidiary*is in a strong growth mode. Today, the utility serves 600,000 more customers than it did in 1990. In 1999 alone, FPL added nearly 76,000 new accounts*a 2-percent increase over 1998. Fourth, FPL Group is the stronger of the two with regard to telecom, and the company's subsidiary FPL FiberNet will gain considerably from new opportunities available in Entergy's service territory. Overall, the combined forces of Entergy and FPL Group create a multi-diversified company, potentially strong not only in the distribution side of the business, but wholesale generation as well as trading, telecom and renewable energy. The pending merger between the two companies had already experienced some previous setbacks related to its timetable for completion. In January, an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued a procedural schedule that called for hearings related to the merger to begin in October 2001, which was expected to delay the merger closing by three to six months. Entergy filed a motion for reconsideration of the schedule. In mid-February, a new ALJ ruling moved up to July the Louisiana Public Service Commission's scheduled hearings on the merger, returning the regulatory proceedings to their original 15-month timetable. Consequently, prior to this latest announcement of new problems associated with the merger, the partnership between FPL Group and Entergy was scheduled to close by the end of this year. With that overview, we can speculate on the reasons why the proposed merger is hitting some snags. Keep in mind that FPL is the buying partner in the merger and more than likely would be the company to contest certain elements of the deal that may have been altered since the merger was first announced. From the start, it was understood that the new headquarters would be located in Florida and that FPL Group would gain majority ownership of the new company. In the announcement of "issues" related to the merger, the two companies identified "integration of the two companies going forward" as one of the factors. This could be an indication that one of the companies is seeking to modify previously agreed-upon terms of the merger contract. In addition, the companies made reference to "governance structure / value-related issues and integration of the two companies." This, of course, could mean many different things. However, one major issue that may be impacting the merger was revealed in a recent report which suggested that Entergy Wholesale Operations (the non-utility power development, marketing and trading subsidiary of Entergy) is considering the divestiture of its two U.K. generating assets, Damhead Creek and Saltend. According to Power Finance & Risk, power traders familiar with inside knowledge have reported that the Entergy subsidiary is considering the sale of the units, which could earn up to $2 billion in the secondary market. Both units are combined-cycle gas turbines and together represent about 2,000 MW. Damhead Creek generates about 800 MW and is located in Kent, England; Saltend generates about 1,200 MW and is located in Yorkshire. According to the report, Entergy has declined to comment on the matter. However, rival traders say the possible divestiture may reflect the tough economics of operating gas-fired plants in the United Kingdom, and Entergy's preference for more lucrative markets in Southern and Eastern Europe. As noted, one of the main appeals of the pending merger between FPL Group and Entergy is that it will create a company that is a leader in wholesale with nearly 10,000 megawatts of unregulated generating capacity. At least that was the blueprint at the time the two companies entered into their agreement. Any plans to divest assets, on either side of the negotiating table, clearly changes the deal and may in fact be one of the "value-related issues" that has complicated this deal. Many mergers of equals also include "pooling of interest" clauses restricting either party from altering its value (up or down) by a specified percentage. Certainly, the divestiture of assets could have an impact on the value of Entergy's portfolio. The announcement of potential problems associated with the merger was not made until early this morning, so it is too early to assess any impact that the announcement might have on the companies' stocks. On March 16, FPL shares closed at $64.25 while Entergy finished at $37.50. As of mid-morning on March 19, FPL shares had fallen to $60.63 and Entergy shares had dropped to about $36.35. Both companies are considered "stocks to watch" today as further impact from the problems associated with the merger may become more apparent. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
