From: mary.hain@enron.com
To: alan.comnes@enron.com
Date: Thu, 28 Dec 2000 02:41:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: RTO West
I wished to review the filing (especially the TOA) and comment along the lines we have before. Unfortunately, I did not have time to read the filing before leaving for vacation. I left the filing on my desk. Hope you had a happy holiday. I don't know if Lysa told you but my mother in law died the day before Christmas so I will be taking off Jan. 4 & 5th to attend the memorial on the East Coast. I'll be checking my E-mails periodically. Alan Comnes 12/22/2000 12:43 PM To: "Ronald Carroll" <rcarroll@bracepatt.com>, Mary Hain/HOU/ECT@ECT cc: Steve Walton/HOU/ECT@ECT Subject: RTO West I have not read the filings summarized below. I am assuming we will not be protesting/intervening but will be focusing on Phase II. Any thoughts otherwise? Alan Comnes Avista Corporation, the Bonneville Power Administration, Idaho Power Company, The Montana Power Company, Nevada Power Company, PacifiCorp, Portland General Electric Company, Puget Sound Energy, Inc., and Sierra Pacific Power Company, RT01-35-000. Amended Supplemental Compliance Filing. On December 1, Avista Corp., the Bonneville Power Administration, Idaho Power Co., The Montana Power Co., Nevada Power Co., PacifiCorp, Portland General Electric Co., Puget Sound Energy, Inc., and Sierra Pacific Power Co. (collectively, Concurring Utilities) file an &Amended Supplemental Compliance Filing and Request for Declaratory Order pursuant to FERC's Order No. 2000. The Concurring Utilities stated that this filing amends a previous filing made on October 23, 2000, in compliance with Order No. 2000. They contended that the October 23 filing provided Stage 1, only a subset of information required to complete the proposal related to the formation of RTO West. They assert that Stage 2 will include the balance of materials and information needed to complete the RTO West proposal and will be submitted to FERC in Spring 2001. Filing noticed December 15. Protests due January 16, 2001.
