From: ecenter@williams.com
To: enl-members-html@estutenws11.energy.williams.com
Date: Thu, 18 Oct 2001 14:03:49 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Williams Energy News Live -- today's video newscast
Dear brad, I'm Washington Bureau Chief Peter Cook filling in for Jay Rickerts. On Friday, we'll bring you the latest from Washington on the final day of the FERC's weeklong workshop on Regional Transmission Organizations. Participants have told our bureau the workshop has been productive and tomorrow we'll find out how the meetings might impact FERC's implementation of RTOs. Former FERC Commissioner Don Santa will give us his thoughts during the 2:00 p.m. ET newscast on where RTOs stand now. We'll also get more reaction to the nomination of Joe Kelliher to fill the open seat at the FERC. Gay Friedmann of the INGAA will give us her thoughts on Kelliher's nomination during the 9:00 a.m. ET newscast. Finally from Washington on Friday, we'll bring you the latest from Congress on energy legislation. The anthrax scare has impacted an already crowded Congressional calendar and there's mixed opinion in the Senate on whether lawmakers there will vote on a comprehensive energy bill this year. ENL's Gale Smith reports, a major energy company is launching a one-of-a-kind Web site to buy fuel. The unique idea behind this is that customers helped develop the site. Motiva Vice President of Commercial Marketing and Distribution Ralph Grimmer talks about the site from the Houston bureau on Friday. The Houston bureau will also bring us a report on Sakonnet Technology on Friday. Sakonnet was started by a handful of former employees from JP Morgan and Merrill Lynch and has found success by being able to offer the same level of support as more established investment banks - for less money. Join us tomorrow from the Houston bureau for all the details on Sakonnet. From the West Coast bureau, ENL's Kym McNicholas says we'll have word on Friday from Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham's press conference and remarks from his keynote address at Hoover Institution's Conference on California's electricity crisis. California Governor Gray Davis is expected to announce his administration's strategy to attempt renegotiation of the long-term power contracts the state signed between January and September of this year with electricity providers. Log on for these stories and more from the West Coast bureau. Keep in mind things are subject to change at a moment's notice. Occasionally guests cancel or change time slots. We'll continue to do our best to keep you updated on future interviews and events. Be sure to watch our newscasts every business day - 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET, at the top of each hour. Peter Cook, EnergyNewsLive.com Washington Bureau Chief View today's Energy Wrap video (Requires Windows Media Player or Real Player ) Experience all that Williams Energy News Live has to offer! If you are receiving this letter for the first time and wish to continue, subscribe now To stop receiving this letter, unsubscribe now If you are having trouble receiving this e-mail, please let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Comments? Suggestions? Let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Copyright 2001 Williams Energy News Live, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
