From: solutions@zepower.com
To: rring@ees.enron.com
Date: Mon, 29 Oct 2001 11:44:38 -0800 (PST)
Subject: FORWARD PRICE VIEWS FOR COMPETITIVE ENERGY MARKETS
Link to www.ze.com [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] Forward Price Views for Competitive Energy Markets [IMAGE] [IMAGE] Dear Jubran, Recognizing the pronounced volatility and uncertainty in the energy industry, ZE PowerGroup has developed processes and tools to facilitate dynamic trading and risk management. One of the foremost tools required for competitive operation is the availability of representative forward natural gas and power views for the various market hubs. Given that generation resource development, price behavior and industry responsiveness has been significantly outside of historic norms established during the extended period of regulation, and given recent world events have resulted in greater uncertainty in the economy it is critical that an organization be able to probabilistically predict future prices, with some degree of accuracy. The market is always asking itself questions like: Should I commit to a deal now or wait? For how much and for how long should I commit? What is the impact of this transaction on my portfolio? How do market events impact near, mid and long term pricing? How long will the price remain at the current level? A forward view is a prerequisite to manage and optimize on an energy portfolio in competitive markets. ZE PowerGroup provides short, mid and long-term Forward Price Views. The Forward Price Views are developed using sophisticated, top-down market simulation models that are readily customizable and adaptable in size and scope to any region in North America. The Forward Price Models have been designed using the key drivers and fundamental parameters of the natural gas and electrical power industries in combination with econometric techniques and expert judgment. The value of the model is in its ability to extract and quantify the expert judgment. The difference between the ZE PowerGroup Forward Price Model and other models is that of a top-down market simulation versus bottom-up generation modeling. The bottom-up generation model does not always account for market behavior and assumes that generation is predominantly economically. These modes make little or no allowance for market power, inefficiencies, gaming or other operational or unique market factors. ZE PowerGroup developed their first price views in 1996. The Forward Price Model has performed well as a guiding tool; the views created from the models have consistently predicted the direction of price movement in the markets. It was one of the few models that predicted rapid and consistent price increases after deregulation when the industry consensus was that prices would retreat. Clients who have incorporated the price views into their strategic planning have reaped significant benefits and mitigated price risks; fairing better than their counterparts. The Forward Price Model can be coupled with the Market Monitoring subscription, which adds value through targeted intelligence required to optimize positioning in uncertain and volatile markets. ZE PowerGroup strives to provide timely and required intelligence at reasonable cost. For more information on ZE PowerGroup's Forward Price Views or on subscribing to a monthly market monitoring service, please visit our web page at www.ze.com , contact us by email at paul@ze.com or by phone at 604-244-1469. [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] Link to www.ze.com [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] You received this newsletter because your email address is on our mailing list. We hope you find our mailings useful. However, if you'd like your name taken off the mailing list, you can do so by replying to this email with UNSUBSCRIBE in the subject line.
