From: ecenter@williams.com
To: enl-members-html@estutenws11.energy.williams.com
Date: Thu, 25 Oct 2001 14:53:08 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Williams Energy News Live -- today's video newscast
Dear brad, Senate Energy Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) says he is unsure whether an energy bill will reach the Senate floor this year. Washington Bureau Chief Peter Cook says Senator Bingaman is also downplaying the chances that a new Republican energy proposal will alter the debate significantly. The bureau will have the latest from the Hill on Friday. Also from Washington on Friday, Executive Director of the International Energy Agency Robert Priddle will discuss the world's energy supply within the context of the campaign against terrorism. Priddle is speaking at the Center for Strategic and International Studies tomorrow, and the Washington bureau will bring us all the details. Energy Markets Washington Editor Jack Belcher will join us from the Washington bureau on Friday. Belcher is stopping by during the 9:00 a.m. ET newscast to discuss the EPA's new boutique fuels proposal. The Independent Petroleum Association of America will continue a three-day meeting in Houston on Friday. Interior Secretary Gale Norton and Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham are among those attending the meeting. Houston Correspondent Kim Benestante will have details on the meeting from the Houston bureau on Friday. Also from Houston, Spinnaker Exploration CEO and Founder Roger Jarvis will discuss his company's third-quarter earnings results. Join us during the 1:00 p.m. ET newscast for the Jarvis interview. And catch Simmons & Company International Vice President of Research Mark Meyer as he talks about how oil stocks are doing this quarter. We'll bring you these interviews from Houston on Friday. From the West Coast bureau on Friday, ENL's Kym McNicholas will bring us a report on the extra security measures being taken to protect the Hoover Dam. The dam has 17 generators, each capable of supplying electricity to 100,000 households. Catch the Hoover Dam report from the West Coast bureau tomorrow. Keep in mind things are subject to change at a moment's notice. Occasionally guests cancel or change time slots. We'll continue to do our best to keep you updated on future interviews and events. Be sure to watch our newscasts every business day - 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET, at the top of each hour. Jay Rickerts, EnergyNewsLive.com Anchor View today's Energy Wrap video (Requires Windows Media Player or Real Player ) Experience all that Williams Energy News Live has to offer! If you are receiving this letter for the first time and wish to continue, subscribe now To stop receiving this letter, unsubscribe now If you are having trouble receiving this e-mail, please let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Comments? Suggestions? Let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Copyright 2001 Williams Energy News Live, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
