From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Thu, 22 Mar 2001 03:22:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: New York Obstacles Thwart Sithe Energies' Plans for New Power Plant
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com [IMAGE] Rapidpartsmart is the newest, most powerful online parts search engine in the power industry. Rapidpartsmart is the complete source to locate, buy and sell engineered parts worldwide. Rapidpartsmart integrates over 5 million supply items into asset management and work management systems to ensure that you know all supply sources, all the time. Rapidpartsmart increases supply options, reduces outage risks and cuts inventory investment. Contact John Kelly at (727) 669-3006 for more information or go to www.rapidpartsmart.com [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 22, 2001 New York Obstacles Thwart Sithe Energies' Plans for New Power Plant by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis [News item from PR Newswire] Sithe Energies, Inc. announced that, in response to issues raised by local residents, the company is reassessing its plans for a power generating facility in Ramapo, New York. The alternative currently under review is a smaller "peaking" facility, which would use no water for generation and operate only during a time of peak electricity use and emergencies to help ensure reliability of the region's electricity supply. Originally slated as an 827-MW combined cycle facility fueled by natural gas, the alternative plant is a 510-MW peaking unit also powered by natural gas. Analysis: Sithe Energies' original plans for the Ramapo plant appear to have been thwarted by concerns among local residents who opposed certain aspects of the plant. Ramapo is located 30 miles north of New York City. Chief among the concerns of local residents is that Ramapo plant was originally planned to run all the time to meet demand, and as a result would use local water resources for cooling purposes. In response to the concerns of residents, Sithe is modifying plans for the plant and reducing its planned output. Unfortunately, Sithe plans to move forward with a smaller peaking unit at the very time when it has become increasingly clear that the state of New York has some rather serious power supply concerns. For background, it is important to note that Exelon Corp. owns nearly half of Sithe Energies. In December 2000, Exelon acquired 49.9 percent of the stock of Sithe. The remaining 50.1 percent of Sithe is owned by Vivendi (34 percent), Marubeni Corp. (15 percent) and Sithe Management (1 percent). The acquisition marked the continuation of an aggressive generation expansion plan on the part of Exelon. Jim McGowan, Sithe senior vice president for development, referenced the role that public opposition played when he spoke about the new plans for a peaking unit in the area. "Sithe has a strong history of working closely with local communities and inviting their input to ensure their major issues are addressed," McGowan said. "We've listened carefully to [residents'] concerns and are addressing them by considering a facility that is clean, less visible, and uses no water for generation." McGowan further noted that the new peaking plant will only operate a limited number of hours annually while fulfilling the region's growing need for electricity during times of peak consumer demand. As an independent power producer, Sithe Energies owns power plants across the United States and internationally. The company has a generation presence in such states as California, Colorado, Massachusetts, New Jersey and Pennsylvania (among several others). In New York, Sithe Energies owns four rather small plants and one large plant that generate approximately 1,329 MW: Batavia (58 MW), Independence Station (Scriba, N.Y., 1,042 MW), Massena (86 MW), Ogdensburg (83 MW), and Sterling (Sherill, N.Y., 60 MW). In addition to the proposed peaking plant in Ramapo, Sithe Energies also has proposed Heritage Station, an 800 MW power plant located near Lake Ontario. A full siting review in New York normally takes a year to complete. However, projects under 80 MW are not required to go through the extensive environmental impact statement, which generally involves a detailed*and time consuming*examination of alternatives. The state of New York has not brought a new plant online since 1996, when a 200-MW plant opened in Brooklyn. It has been almost seven years since a 1,000 MW unit in Oswego, N.Y., marked the last plant to open upstate. Further, New York expects only a 3.5-percent increase in new capacity in the next three to four years. Consequently, concerns about the state's ability to meet increasing demand for power have gained momentum, heightened by the ongoing problems in California. Pressure has been placed on New York regulators to expedite the approval steps for siting new plants in the state. However, at the same time, environmental groups closely guard the proposals for new plants and often lobby for limitations on how and where the new plant will produce power. This appears to be the case in Sithe Energies' Ramapo plant, which is proceeding on the condition that it will not use water resources to generate power. While other new plants are being planned in New York, realistically it will be two years or more before they come online and provide sufficient capacity to ease concerns about shortages. Meanwhile, the state enters this summer's season with significant doubts about its ability to meet power demands. "New York City, like other areas of the Northeast, the Midwest and California, is in a very serious situation," reported a member of the New York Public Service Commission to the New Assembly. While the entire state of New York is subject to shortages, the problem appears to be particularly acute in New York City. A November 2000 FERC report entitled "Investigation of Bulk Power Markets, Northeast Region," highlights specific capacity problems in the New York City/Long Island community of 11 million people. These areas are particularly vulnerable because they are isolated from most of the state's grid, the study says. Like northern California, which suffered rolling blackouts due to transmission constraints, New York City and Long Island can only import limited quantities of power on constrained transmission lines. Hydro and fossil resources are plentiful in upstate New York, but cannot reach the city. Being both densely populated and heavily residential, it is difficult to site new power plants in the area. Consequently, 80 percent of the power that the city consumes is generated by the city. New plants are being proposed because New York City reportedly will be 300 MW short of its required 8,428-MW generating capacity needs this summer. That projected shortfall is expected to increase by another 200 MW by summer 2002. Increased demand is causing additional problems for the energy markets of New York City and New York State. Demand in the state rose by 2,700 MW from 1995 to 2000, or 2.5 times as fast as new generation capacity was added. This year's demand is expected to reach 31,100 MW, or about 3.7 percent above regulators' earlier forecasts. According to the FERC report, New York City's load should reach 10,535 MW this summer alone, requiring 8,428 MW of in-city capacity, along with imports, to meet demand and provide a reserve margin. With a current capacity of 8,132 MW, there is a potential 296 MW shortfall. Long Island has a potential 131 MW shortfall to meet the required 4,653 MW of power. The report confirms earlier projections by FERC Chairman Curt HSbert and others that unless New York gets additional generation capacity online within the next few months, the state could suffer some of California's problems. However, despite the need for additional power generation in the state, the intense public scrutiny of Sithe's plant in Ramapo echoes similar protests from environmental groups and politicians for new generation plants throughout the state. For instance, the New York Power Authority's (NYPA) plan to install ten 44-MW combustion turbines by June was met with opposition from environmental groups like the New York Public Interest Research Group (NYIRG), which has sued the NYPA, charging that it circumvented the environmental review process for siting new plants. In addition, FERC's report included data from the New York ISO indicating that there were approximately 74 projects proposed to be built in New York State (as of November 2000). The report indicated that only one of these projects is likely to be built in the next three to four years. Although Sithe has modified its plans into a smaller peaking unit, McGowan has reiterated that New York should not fall behind in meeting its energy requirements. If it does, it will make the same mistakes for which California is now paying a tremendous price. Along the same lines, William Muesler, CEO of the New York ISO, recently said that to avoid a replication of California's market meltdown, New York must move quickly to build more power plants. Muesler cited that 8,600 MW of new power plant capacity, 25 percent more than is currently available, must be constructed in New York by 2005 or shortages will become likely, pushing up prices and increasing the odds of rolling blackouts. However, despite these clear warnings about the need for new power plants, "not in my back yard" has been a common response in New York. Even New Jersey's acting Governor Donald T. DiFrancesco has joined the ranks of those opposing new power plants in the region. DiFrancesco reportedly told a meeting of about a dozen North Jersey mayors who oppose new power plants that he has created a task force to help opponents of various power plant projects in New York and New Jersey. Included in the task force are members of DiFrancesco's own staff, the state Department of Environmental Protection and the Attorney General's Office. Moreover, although California offers a clear picture of the ramifications that can result from not establishing adequate supply, New York appears to be heading down a similar path. Although California and New York have different restructuring models, one market factor is the same in both states: supply that cannot meet demand. We know the toll that this inequity has had on California. Is it only a matter of time before New York suffers the same consequences? An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
