From: michelle.cash@enron.com
To: cindy.skinner@enron.com
Date: Wed, 12 Sep 2001 12:44:43 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: FW: SPECIAL EDITION ... The EmploymentSource Newsletter
As a follow up to the discussion today, this may be of assistance. Michelle -----Original Message----- From: Lighthill, Sandra Sent: Wednesday, September 12, 2001 2:25 PM To: Cash, Michelle; Hope, Valeria A.; Johnson, Rick Subject: FW: SPECIAL EDITION ... The EmploymentSource Newsletter FYI and akin to our meeting this morning. Sandra -----Original Message----- From: Employment Practices Solutions <eps@epexperts.com>@ENRON [mailto:IMCEANOTES-Employment+20Practices+20Solutions+20+3Ceps+40epexperts+2Ecom+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com] Sent: Wednesday, September 12, 2001 1:05 PM To: EPS@list.epexperts.com Subject: SPECIAL EDITION ... The EmploymentSource Newsletter [IMAGE] The EmploymentSource Newsletter SPECIAL EDITION Our Mission is To Help Employers Enhance Employee Relations While Minimizing Employment Claims. Please forward this newsletter to your friends and co-workers. To subscriber or unsubscribe, see bottom of newsletter. We at EPS share our grief and prayers with our fellow Americans in the wake of the terrorist attacks. We offer our condolences to those of you who have lost loved ones, friends, or colleagues. This tragedy has touched each of our lives While focusing on business-as-usual is difficult right now, we are moving quickly to adapt to the needs of our clients. We are adding special segments to our HR classes to address organizational response and workers' reactions to the crisis, and we will continue to work to meet your special needs. We are committed to providing a compassionate resource should you need one. What NOW? Kathleen K. Edmond, Esq., MBA, LICSW Employment Practices Solutions, Senior Consultant, Minneapolis/St. Paulkedmond@epexperts.com (800) 727-2766 Soon, very soon, we will all need to get ourselves and our companies back to business - whether we are ready or not. How can we do this in a way that is respectful and helpful, but at the same time doesn't create issues that do not exist? First, understand that we are all affected. Not just those of us who had family, friends, co-workers, or neighbors in New York, Washington, or who were passengers on the airlines. Our world has permanently changed. This is not a dramatic overstatement. It is simply the truth. We cannot undo what happened yesterday but we can influence how we deal with the change and how we can be stronger as a result of the horrible attack on our country, our safety, and our sense of security yesterday. Let me simply make a list. I apologize if this is not Pulitzer Prize material. Timeliness is the most important factor at the moment. Speak to the organization. Pull management together first to discuss their responsibilities as managers and give them guidance. Acknowledge their dual roles as managers in the organization and individuals with personal feelings. While it will take time to absorb the full impact of what has happened, it will be necessary to get back to the business at hand. Depending on the size and configuration of the organization, talk to everyone as a group. Either get them together in person, a group e-mail, voicemail, teleconference - whatever means are available to you. At this point it is most important to let people know that we are all stunned but that we are pulling together. It is not important to have all the answers right now. Communication will continue. Acknowledge that our world is now different. The sense of safety and security we had before September 11th is gone. We must each individually and organizationally replace that with something different. Acknowledge that individuals will respond and recover at different paces. Some will want to get back to work as quickly as possible to regain their sense of normalcy and control. Others will have difficulty focusing for a long time. Most likely it will be sporadic and not a constant inability to focus. This is a very normal response to a crisis. Depending on your organization and the level of direct impact, you may choose to bring a professional counselor or team of counselors on site for a day or longer. They can conduct group processes and individual counseling. Another possibility is a chat room where employees can share their experiences, feelings, and have a place to vent. The question will arise, how long should the chat room be operational. For right now, don't set a time limit, but review it in a couple of weeks or a month. If participation is decreasing (which I except that it will in a month), determine a date to close it down and make an organizational announcement to that effect. When closing it down, don't go dark without notice. Just let people know that it is time to end that part of the recovery process. Allow people to talk periodically during the day. The need for the amount of discussion will change over the next weeks. In the next day or so probably little work will get done. But by the end of the week and certainly next week, business will resume. Consider allowing employees additional personal time off for memorial services, blood donations, or other community-focused recovery events. Remind people to use your Employee Assistance Program, company counselors, health benefits, religious leaders, and other local counseling resources as available. Have someone in the organization pull together a resource list of local and organizational telephone numbers for employees and their families. Talk about the impact on your specific business and what effect if any it has on your company. Maybe it affects your communications, transportation, distribution, or some other aspect of your operations. If members of your corporate family have been killed in these attacks, consider a memorial service later this week or next for all employees to attend, whether they personally knew the individual(s) or not. Assure them that business will go on, subdued perhaps, different in some ways, but there will be continuity. Recognize that people will be angry, sad, scared and confused for some period of time. The risk of discriminatory judgments and remarks is increased. If you hear such remarks, challenge, gently if necessary, but help people understand that it is a normal reaction to the attacks on our safety. Remind them to take care of themselves and their families and friends. It is important to keep talking to each other and their children, even those very young children. Here is a good article they can use: www.womencentral.msn.com/parenting/articles/tragedy.asp We do not know what will be happening in the next weeks or months. There may be additional armed conflict. We have entered a time of uncertainty that will continue to affect the national psyche and our individual lives. As organizations we are well advised to be prepared to address the effect it will have on our employees. You will need to address the corporate travel policy. What will you do if an employee is afraid to travel to New York for a business trip? Consider making other meeting arrangements, at least for the near term. Longer term you will have questions about what to do with employees who cannot seem to focus after a reasonable length of time. And you will have questions about what is a reasonable length of time and proper disciplinary actions if needed. We will address those questions as they arise, but for now they are beyond the scope of this communication. Please feel free to email or call us if you have specific questions. Yesterday I was conducting a Best Practices seminar in Minneapolis as the terrorist attacks were unfolding on the East Coast. As we did not know the magnitude of what was about to happen we decided to continue with the work in front of us but to be cognizant of the events that were occurring. The day and the response of the participants were instructive to what to expect at work. Participants were engaged, but at some level distracted. We took a break every hour or so for an update on events. We talked about our personal feelings. We changed our agenda to spend the last half hour of the day planning about how we would lead our organizations through this tragedy. We discussed the role of Human Resources and the Legal departments. We wondered at the inconsistency of the beautiful day, the sunshine and the green grass in the suburbs of Minneapolis and the horror we were hearing on the news. We encouraged people who had two hours of drive time to leave a half hour early to be home with their families. We all took calls and made calls during the day to check on family and friends. In other words, we took care of ourselves, and we took care of others. We also worked, and planned for the future. I urge you to do the same. About the author: Kathleen Knutson Edmond is a Senior consultant with Employment Practices Solutions, Inc. and is located in the Minneapolis/St. Paul office. Kathleen has worked in the Human Resources field as a management consultant an in-house attorney for a large national retailer. In addition to her law degree, she has earned an MBA, is a certified mediator specializing in employment disputes, and is a licensed independent clinical social worker. Over the years Kathleen has counseled, coached, and trained several thousand employees and managers on a broad spectrum, of human resource and business operations issues. Kathleen can be reached at kedmond@epexperts.com . Copyright 2001 Employment Practices Solutions, All Rights Reserved Feel free to reprint any articles from this newsletter with appropriate attribution to author and publication. We respect your privacy and will not release your email address to any third parties. If you are an employment attorney or HR professional and would like to submit an article, please contact us: eps@epexperts.com To unsubscribe: EPS-request@list.epexperts.com with 'unsubscribe' in message body. Not a subscriber? EPS-request@list.epexperts.com with 'subscribe' in message body. Questions or comments? eps@epexperts.com . - eps1in.jpg
