From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Date: Sun, 1 Apr 2001 18:42:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Anonymous Reporting Facilities
This is to remind you that various anonymous reporting facilities are available for you to report violations of Company policy and suspected criminal conduct by any officer, employee, or agent of Enron relating to the performance of his or her duties. These reporting facilities are also available for your questions, messages, comments, and suggestions. Any policy violation or criminal conduct may be reported by letter, e-mail, or voice mail, as set forth below, describing the suspected violation or criminal conduct with as much detail as possible to allow Enron to conduct an investigation of the reported matter. 1. Letters should be sent to the Confidential Post Office Box: Enron Compliance Officer Confidential - Conduct of Business Affairs P. O. Box 1188 Houston, Texas 77251-1188 2. E-mails should be sent to the Office of the Chairman,s e-mail box: Employees with Enron e-mail can access this box by sending an e-mail to the Office of the Chairman. Simply type &Office of the Chairman8 in the address box, type your message, and send. Your message will be completely anonymous. If, however, you copy your message and e-mail it to someone else, the copy will not be anonymous. 3. Voice mail messages should be left with the Office of the Chairman voice mail box. You can access the Office of the Chairman voice mail box at (713) 853-7294. If you call from your extension or an outside line, your message will be completely anonymous. If, however, you access the voice mail box while you are in the Enron voice mail system, your message will not be anonymous. You may, but are not required to, identify yourself. If you would like to identify yourself, please submit your name and phone number with your letter or message. All anonymously reported matters will be investigated and acted upon in the same manner as those that contain signatures. We take great pride in ensuring that Enron is a great place to work. We encourage each employee to continue to conduct Enron's business affairs in accordance with all applicable laws and in a moral and honest manner.
