From: office.chairman@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Date: Mon, 14 Aug 2000 13:19:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Code of Ethics
As Enron employees, we are responsible for conducting the business affairs of the Company in accordance with all applicable laws and in a moral and honest manner. To make certain that we understand what is expected of us, Enron has adopted certain policies, approved by the Board of Directors, which are in the Code of Ethics July 2000, formerly known as the Enron Conduct of Business Affairs. This year, we,ve made some revisions to our Code of Ethics to address recent policies approved by the Board of Directors and adopted by Enron. These changes include:  Principles of Human Rights have been added, which describe Enron,s responsibility to conduct itself according to basic tenets of human behavior that transcend industries, cultures, economics, and local, regional and national boundaries (see pg. 4);  Additional information about our Business Ethics policy about legal contracts, the selection of outside counsel, and disparaging remarks made by employees about Enron (see pg. 12);  Additional information about Enron,s policy on confidential information and trade secrets (see pg. 14);  A decrease in the number of days computer passwords are valid under Enron,s policy on communication services and equipment (see pg. 35);  Additional information about criminal penalties and civil fines assessed by the US government under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (see pg. 50); and  Additional language regarding Enron,s policy on conflicts of interests, investments, and outside business interests of employees (see pg. 57). The Code of Ethics contains commonsense rules of conduct that most employees practice on a day-to-day basis. However, I ask that you read them carefully and completely to make certain that you are complying with these policies. It is absolutely essential that you fully comply with these policies in the future. If you have any questions, I encourage you to discuss them with your supervisor or Enron legal counsel. In next few weeks, you will receive the Code of Ethics July 2000 booklet and a Certificate of Compliance, which you must sign as a statement of your agreement to comply with the policies stated in the Code of Ethics booklet during your employment with Enron. You may do this in one of two ways:  Select the Code of Ethics option located at eHRonline.enron.com and complete the Certificate of Compliance.  Sign and return the Certificate of Compliance to Elaine Overturf, Deputy Corporate Secretary, Enron Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB4836, Houston, Texas 77002-7369. Thank you for your cooperation and for all you do to make Enron a successful company.
