From: cfi1@tca-us.com
To: gdahlke@painehamblen.com
Date: Sat, 8 Jul 2000 05:59:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: SubGroup A - Issues List
Gary, Your list does not appear to address the issue of RTO liability for costs caused by issuance of invalid operating instructions. This issue is very important to the parties (generators and Scheduling Coordinators) who will be obligated to comply with the RTO Tariff. I've raised this issue several times now at RRG meetings, but it apparently has not yet taken hold at the Legal Work Group. I have not been able to raise the issue at the meetings of your subgroup because of conflicts with other NWRTO meetings, and I will not be able to attend your future subgroup meeting (again, due to conflicts with other NWRTO meetings), so I've attempted to frame the issue through the attached, hastily-drafted issue paper. Please contact me if you need additional explanation of the concerns stated in the paper. Thanks, Carl Imparato 510-558-1456 __________________ GARY A. DAHLKE wrote: At the June 14th meeting of SubGroup A - Liability and Insurance, we identified the following list of additional issues concerning which some coordination between SubGroup A and other work groups needs to occur. 1. Liability for occurrences at the RTO West's seams. 2. BPA and other public agencies' authority and ability to indemnify. 3. Liability for environmental matters. 4. D and O insurance for members of the RTO board. 5. Insurance for RTO employees, workers compensation, employee benefit insurance, automobile insurance. 6. Load and generation integration agreements contain liability language. 7. Claims administration. 8. Congestion management--potential liability for cutting schedules etc. 9. Force majeure. 10. Liability for preexisting conditions. 11. Contractor, maintenance liability. 12. E and O insurance, depending on the services the RTO will ultimately provide. 13. Amount and cost of liability insurance for RTO West. Please e-mail me with any additions to this list. - NWRTO-liability.rtf
