From: office.chairman@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Date: Sun, 21 May 2000 18:55:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: =?ANSI_X3.4-1968?Q?Enron=01,s_Entry_Into_Global_Metals_Market?=
This morning, we announced an offer to acquire London-based MG plc, one of the world,s leading metals marketers, for $446 million. We have been monitoring the global metals market for several years, and we believe that now is the right time to enter this $120 billion market. We are confident that our successful business model, which we have proven in the natural gas and electricity markets, gives us a tremendous advantage in a market that is undergoing fundamental change. Our offer to acquire MG plc has been unanimously recommended by MG plc,s board of directors, and we expect to close the transaction by early third quarter of this year, following shareholder and customary regulatory approvals. MG plc is a leading independent company in global non-ferrous metals trading and marketing and the only such company that is publicly traded. Headquartered in London with major offices in New York and Frankfurt, MG plc has 330 employees in 14 countries. It is the world,s leading copper merchant, one of the top three merchants of copper concentrates and nickel, and a leading European merchant of recycled metal. Other products that MG plc markets include aluminum, lead, tin, zinc, brass and stainless steel. This transaction provides Enron with access to new customers and enables cross-marketing opportunities. We plan to sell Enron energy products to MG plc customers and offer bundled products combining metals and power outsourcing. Enron will help producers and consumers manage the risks inherent in volatile raw materials and energy markets, and we will improve commodity prices for both buyers and sellers. MG plc,s existing market-making capabilities and market knowledge provide an immediate platform upon which to overlay Enron,s proven ability to offer innovative e-commerce-enabled services to commodity-based industries. Our new metals business will be integrated into our wholesale business by Enron Europe CEO John Sherriff, who will work closely with Enron Net Works CEO Greg Whalley.
