From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Thu, 29 Mar 2001 03:57:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: California Regulators Approve Massive Rate Increase: Who Benefits
 and Who Doesn't?
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com Stay on top of the torrent of e-commerce information news and analysis with SCIENTECH'S E-Commerce InfoGrid. Get over 100 pages of daily tracked and verified information regarding what gas, water, electric and utility service businesses are doing to keep ahead in the e-commerce industry. Download a sample at www.ConsultRCI.com or contact Chris Vigil, toll-free at (888) 972-8676 for more information. [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 29, 2001 California Regulators Approve Massive Rate Increase: Who Benefits and Who Doesn't? by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis California regulators earlier this week approved electricity rate increases topping 40 percent, the largest in the state's history. The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) voted unanimously to raise rates by 3 cents / KWh. The rate hikes, which take effect immediately but won't appear on customer bills until May, apply to millions of customers of Southern California Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric, the state's two largest utilities. Low-income residents are exempt from the increases. Analysis: For context, keep in mind that it was only two months ago that the CPUC approved its first rate increase in response to the staggering debt of SCE and PGOand other factors related to the California energy crisis. In early January, the CPUC approved temporary rate hikes of 9 percent for residential customers (about $5 a month for the average customer) and 7 to 15 percent for businesses. The temporary increases were only to remain in effect for 90 days and will be expiring shortly. At that time, both PGOand SCE denounced the temporary increase, which was not surprising considering that the 9 to 15 percent increase was much lower than the utilities had requested (PGOasked for a 26-percent increase and SCE had asked for 30 percent). The January rate increase was followed by an additional 10-percent increase that is set to take effect next year. The CPUC's current ruling increases rates by about 42 percent at SCE and 46 percent at PG&E. However, the CPUC's measure will most likely serve to benefit the state more than SCE or PG&E. The CPUC clearly established that none of the additional revenue earned from the rate increases can be used by the utilities to pay for past power purchase costs, which have amounted to about $13 billion. In addition, the CPUC adopted a proposal by consumer group Toward Utility Rate Normalization (TURN) that a rate cap preventing the utilities from charging market rates should be extended. In other words, the portion of the electric rates that PGOand SCE actually receive from ratepayers will remain frozen for the foreseeable future. The CPUC has established that the utilities must still recover billions of dollars in stranded costs before the rate freeze can be lifted. Thus, it appears that most of the revenue accumulated from the rate increases will be used to reimburse the state of California for the power purchases it continues to make on behalf of the utilities and will not be used to pay off any existing debt held by the utilities. PGOalready has responded that the CPUC ruling attempts to "completely change the ratemaking rules that are used to determine the end of the rate freeze under AB1890." PGOhas said that it will challenge this and other aspects of the CPUC ruling. However, even though most of the money from the rate increases will go to the state, it is also not presently clear if the increases will be sufficient to reimburse California for the $4 billion it has already spent to procure power, or compensate for the anticipated $14 billion that it will have to pay for power this year. Some of the funds generated by the rate increases must be used by PGOand SCE to pay for power that they still obtain from suppliers or to cover costs for their own power generation. Consequently, the CPUC has left open the possibility that additional rate increases may be necessary. Although it is still being evaluated how individual customer classes will be impacted by the rate increases, it is fairly clear that large commercial and industrial customers will end up paying the most. Loretta Lynch, president of the CPUC, maintained that an underlying goal of the increase is to force what she referred to as "electricity hogs," or those people who excessively use power without concern for the state's supply shortage, to conserve. Lynch has said that conservation is the key to staving off additional rate hikes, and that the higher rates should put financial pressure on Californians to conserve energy, which theoretically should help to reduce the risk of blackouts in the state this summer. The average residential cost for a kilowatt hour is about 12.5 cents for SCE customers and 10.5 cents for PGOcustomers. The new rate increase will add about 3 cents / KWh for the customers of both utilities, which as noted averages out to about a 42-percent increase at SCE and a 46-percent increase at PGO(for electricity alone). However, Lynch also established that a "tiered" pricing structure, which has yet to be fully determined, will be put into place. The tiered pricing system will reward customers who conserve energy and penalize those who do not. Essentially this means that those customers who use the most power will ultimately pay the most, and could face additional rate increases this year, which the CPUC did not rule out as a possibility. Under a tiered pricing structure, those customers who conserve on their power usage may not see their bills increase beyond the rate increase approved this week. The CPUC also ruled that PGOand SCE must pay small independent generators in the state (known as qualifying facilities) for energy within 15 days of delivery. Over the last week, California has again issued Stage 3 emergencies, signaling that power reserves have fallen to dangerously low levels. Contributing to the problem is the fact that QFs have stopped producing in recent weeks as a result of the financial problems of PGOand SCE and the fact that they have been paid only a small percentage of what they are owed for power previously produced. Under normal circumstances, the QFs can generate as much as 30 percent of the state's electricity needs. The CPUC ruled that PGOand SCE must pay the QFs within 15 days of the end of a billing period, or suffer from penalties equal to the amount of their outstanding payment. Gray Davis, who throughout his tenure as California's governor assured Californians that rates would not be increased, attempted to distance himself from the CPUC's ruling, and in fact issued a statement that he has no control over the commission's decision. Further, Davis said that the rate increase was "premature" because the state is still evaluating the financial numbers that are needed to make a sound decision. In turn, the CPUC's Lynch criticized both the governor and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for "failing to act" on energy rates up to this point. In addition to its comments regarding the rate freeze, PGOresponded with a mixed reaction to the CPUC's ruling on the rate increase. On one hand, the utility said the ruling offered a "welcome dose of realism." However, the utility also said that the rate increase "does not offer a comprehensive solution, fails to resolve the uncertainty of the crisis and may even create more instability." Based on previous statements that PGOhas made, the utility believes that the state's fundamental problem has its origins in the wholesale market, where prices have often exceeded $300/MWh. Some power generators, many of whom have been lambasted by California and federal regulators for alleged price gouging, went on record with a favorable response to the rate increases. Jeffrey Skilling, Enron's CEO, said, "There's been a need to balance supply and demand [in California] and to date I don't think anyone has been willing to let the prices rise to help balance supply and demand. So [the increases] are a huge step forward in reducing the odds of shortfalls." Keith Bailey, chairman and CEO of Williams, told Reuters that he thought the CPUC's rate increase was a rational decision and something that the industry has been suggesting for some time. Naturally, many consumer activists reacted vehemently against the rate increases and protested during the CPUC's proceedings. The main argument of the consumer groups is that the CPUC, the governor and FERC have not fulfilled their regulatory responsibilities in bringing down electricity prices in the state and have not acted with enough force to restrict what they perceive as excessive prices for power owned by out-of-state generators. This position gained momentum last week when the California ISO reported that electricity wholesalers overcharged state utilities by $5.5 billion over the past 10 months. Consumer groups also continue to oppose any sort of a bail-out for PGOand SCE and believe that the utilities have hidden money under the protection of other subsidiaries within their parent companies. Both utilities maintain that any financial restructuring activities they have implemented have been legal. Moreover, while the rate increases may help the state to continue securing power on behalf of the utilities, other fundamental problems related to the state's energy crisis remain unresolved. The CPUC has asserted that part of the benefit of the rate increases is to keep the utilities financially solvent. However, at the same time, the commission clearly states that none of the extra revenue generated by the rate hikes can be used to pay down the utilities' outstanding debt. Consequently, although the higher rates should significantly increase revenues for both utilities ($2.3 billion a year for SCE and $2.5 billion a year for PG&E), all of this money apparently will be turned over to the state and do little to alleviate the utilities' own financial problems. This issue still remains unresolved and under the domain of the state legislature. However, the likelihood that PGOand SCE would need to declare bankruptcy remains strong (unless additional rate increases or securitization takes place). In addition, other fundamental problems such as the supply / demand imbalance in California and the related volatility of the state's wholesale market continue to wreak havoc on the market's stakeholders. While the CPUC's rate increases may be a positive step toward stabilizing the state's financial, the future remains quite uncertain for PGOand SCE. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
