From: miyung.buster@enron.com
To: ann.schmidt@enron.com, bryan.seyfried@enron.com, dcasse@whwg.com, 
	dg27@pacbell.net, elizabeth.linnell@enron.com, filuntz@aol.com, 
	james.steffes@enron.com, janet.butler@enron.com, 
	jeannie.mandelker@enron.com, jeff.dasovich@enron.com, 
	joe.hartsoe@enron.com, john.neslage@enron.com, 
	john.sherriff@enron.com, joseph.alamo@enron.com, 
	karen.denne@enron.com, lysa.akin@enron.com, 
	margaret.carson@enron.com, mark.palmer@enron.com, 
	mark.schroeder@enron.com, markus.fiala@enron.com, 
	mary.hain@enron.com, michael.brown@enron.com, mike.dahlke@enron.com, 
	mona.petrochko@enron.com, nicholas.o'day@enron.com, 
	paul.kaufman@enron.com, peggy.mahoney@enron.com, 
	peter.styles@enron.com, richard.shapiro@enron.com, 
	rob.bradley@enron.com, sandra.mccubbin@enron.com, 
	shelley.corman@enron.com, stella.chan@enron.com, 
	steven.kean@enron.com, susan.mara@enron.com, mike.roan@enron.com, 
	alex.parsons@enron.com, andrew.morrison@enron.com, lipsen@cisco.com, 
	janel.guerrero@enron.com, shirley.hudler@enron.com, 
	kathleen.sullivan@enron.com, tom.briggs@enron.com, 
	linda.robertson@enron.com, lora.sullivan@enron.com, 
	jennifer.thome@enron.com
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2001 02:03:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Energy Issues
Please see the following articles: AP Wires, Thurs 3/22: "Report: Power wholesalers overcharged California $5.5 billion" Dow Jones Newswires, Thurs 3/22: "Reliant To Appeal Fed Judge Ruling To Sell Pwr To Calif" Sac Bee, Thurs 3/22: "Federal judge orders major power wholesaler to sell to California" San Jose Mercury News Thurs, 3/22: "State falling short on pacts that provide low-cost energy" Contra Costa Times, Thurs 3/22: "Crisis saps state surplus" Sac Bee. Fri, 3/23: "Bill to pay small energy firms stalls" Sac Bee, Fri., 3/23: "House panel ends energy hearings -- will it step in? Sac Bee, Fri, 3/23: "Dan Walters: Crisis deepens: politicos panic" San Diego Union, Fri., 3/23: "Report says power wholesalers overcharged state $6 billion" San Diego Union, Fri, 3/23: "Disappearing state surplus sparks alarm" San Diego Union, Fri., 3/23: "Outages darken economic outlook in state, some say" San Diego Union, Fri., 3/23: "Out-of-state generators question power regulators' authority " San Diego Union, Fri., 3/23: "Allegheny Energy makes big California connection" LA Times, Fri, 3/23: "Judge Frees Small Firm From Edison Contract " SF Chron, Fri, 3/23: "Lodi Defies Order for Blackouts Utility tells PG&E to 'pay the bills' " SF Chron, Fri, 3/23: "Coming Down to the Wire State legislators battle over alternative energy bills" SF Chron, Fri, 3/23: "Grid Operators Push to Prevent Overcharging They say regulators must be aggressive to stop billing abuses" Mercury News, Fri., 3/23: "State's bill for energy could double this year" Mercury News, Fri., 3/23: "Plan for alternate power plants stalls" ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Report: Power wholesalers overcharged California $5.5 billion DON THOMPSON, Associated Press Writer Thursday, March 22, 2001 ,2001 Associated Press (03-22) 11:41 PST SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) -- Electricity wholesalers have overcharged California more than $5 billion since May by manipulating the energy market, according to a report prepared for power grid managers. The Independent System Operator will file the findings with federal regulators and ask for a refund, ISO spokesman Patrick Dorinson said. The state auditor also said Thursday that the state's 1996 deregulation law encouraged both buyers and sellers of electricity to ``manipulate wholesale prices to their advantage'' by underestimating supply and demand. The auditor's report lays out what it calls ``a complex combination'' of deficiencies and misjudgments it says led to the state's power problems. According to the ISO report, five in-state power suppliers and 16 importers frequently offered electricity at prices higher than it cost them to produce -- effectively withholding supplies -- or didn't bid at all when they were able to generate power. ISO Director of Market Analysis Anjali Sheffrin presented the findings at a conference in Berkeley last week. The companies have denied overcharging California and have said they expect the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission will determine their prices were justified. The commission has recently stepped up scrutiny of power companies' behavior during California's power crisis, asking suppliers to justify $124 million in sales during the first two months of the year or refund the money. Critics claim thousands of additional questionable sales are not being challenged. California has been spending about $45 million a day -- $4.2 billion since January -- to purchase power for Pacific Gas and Electric Co. and Southern California Edison. Both utilities, the state's largest, have been cut off by electricity wholesalers because their credit is almost worthless. Edison and PG&E say they are nearly $14 billion in debt due to soaring wholesale power costs. The state's deregulation law blocks them from recovering the costs from customers. State Controller Kathleen Connell said Wednesday that the state's power-buying is gutting its budget surplus. Since the state started making emergency power buys, the surplus has fallen from $8.5 billion to about $3.2 billion, she said. Connell ordered an audit of the power buys, saying Gov. Gray Davis is withholding key financial information from her office and the Legislature. She said she would refuse to transfer $5.6 billion into a ``rainy day fund'' she said was set up to impress Wall Street as the state prepares to issue $10 billion in revenue bonds to cover its power buys. Transferring the money would leave the state general fund $2.4 billion in debt, Connell said. Sandy Harrison, spokesman for the state Department of Finance, and Keely Bosler, of the Legislative Analyst's Office, said such transfers are routine and required by law. ``The law says she has to do it. The law does not give her the power to demand that kind of audit information,'' Harrison said. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the administration has released the financial information it can without jeopardizing negotiations for long-term power contracts with wholesalers. Also Wednesday, a federal judge ordered a major wholesaler, Reliant Energy Services, to continue selling power to California despite its fear that it will not be paid. The ISO buys power from companies like Reliant on behalf of utilities in attempts to fend off rolling blackouts like those that hit the state this week and during two days in January. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------- Reliant To Appeal Fed Judge Ruling To Sell Pwr To Calif 03/22/2001 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) LOS ANGELES -(Dow Jones)- Reliant Energy Inc. (REI) said Thursday it will immediately file with the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco in response to a federal judge's ruling late Wednesday that the company continue selling power to California regardless of whether it is paid. U.S. District Court Judge Frank Damrell granted California's Independent System Operator, which makes last minute power purchases in the spot market, a preliminary injunction against Reliant, saying Californians were at risk of irreparable harm if Reliant stopped selling power to the state. The ISO, manager of the state's electricity grid, said the judge's ruling will allow the agency to keep the lights on in California. Reliant, which is owed more than $300 million from the state's cash-strapped utilities, supplies California with about 3,000 megawatts of electricity from power plants it owns in the state. Reliant spokesman Richard Wheatley said the state Department of Water Resources, the agency that buys California's bulk power needs on behalf of PG&E Corp. (PCG) unit Pacific Gas & Electric, Edison International (EIX) unit Southern California Edison and Sempra Energy (SRE) unit San Diego Gas & Electric, should back the ISO's last minute power purchases. In a filing with the Securities and Commission, Reliant said it is owed $108 million by the DWR for last minute power purchases the ISO made during the six weeks prior to the agreement Reliant made with the DWR. Damrell dismissed Reliant's claim, saying he does not have the authority to force the DWR to pay for that power. "We're going to immediately appeal Judge Damrell's order," Wheatley said. "Clearly the judge understands the implications of his order. We are required to do business with creditworthy entities. Unfortuantely the judge did not force the ISO to post a surety bond, which would allowed us to do business with the ISO." Gov. Gray Davis has said the state is not responsible for the last minute power purchases the ISO makes, despite a law passed authorizing the DWR to buy power on behalf of the utilities. Wheatley added that the company will also seek relief on the issue at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Damrell's ruling remains in effect until the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rules on the matter. Separately, Wheatley said a short-term power supply contract that Reliant signed with the DWR expired Monday and the DWR has not renewed the contract. A spokesman for the DWR would not comment on the issue. -By Jason Leopold; Dow Jones Newswires; 323-658-3874; jason.leopold@dowjones.com ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- Federal judge orders major power wholesaler to sell to California Updated: March 21, 2001 - 8:23 p.m. A federal judge issued a preliminary injunction Wednesday ordering a major electricity wholesaler to continue selling to California despite its fear that it will not get paid. U.S. District Judge Frank C. Damrell Jr. said Californians were at risk of irreparable harm if Reliant Energy Services stopped selling power to the Independent System Operator, which oversees the state's power grid. The ISO buys last-minute power on behalf of utilities to fill gaps in supply to try to fend off blackouts. Damrell dismissed Reliant's attempt to force the state Department of Water Resources to back the ISO's purchases for the state's two biggest utilities. The state has been spending about $50 million a day on power for Pacific Gas and Electric Co. and Southern California Edison, both denied credit by suppliers after amassing billions of dollars in debts. The judge said he had no authority to force the DWR to pay for that power. Gov. Gray Davis has said the state isn't responsible for purchasing the costly last-minute power ISO buys for Edison and PG&E, despite a law authorizing state power purchases on the utilities' behalf. ISO attorney Charles Robinson said the ruling gives ISO operators "a tool to assist them in keeping the lights on in California." "Had the decision gone the other way, one could expect other generators to simply ignore emergency orders," Robinson said. Damrell's preliminary injunction will remain in effect until the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rules on the matter. Damrell denied the ISO's request for preliminary injunctions against three other wholesalers, Dynegy, AES and Williams, who agreed to continue selling to the ISO pending the FERC ruling. Spokesmen for Reliant, Dynegy, AES and Williams were out of the office Wednesday night and didn't immediately return calls from The Associated Press seeking comment on the ruling. The ISO went to court in February after a federal emergency order requiring the power sales expired. The judge then issued a temporary restraining order, requiring the sales, but dropped it after the suppliers agreed to continue sales to California, pending his Wednesday ruling. The ISO said it would lose about 3,600 megawatts if the suppliers pulled out, enough power for about 2.7 million households. One megawatt is enough for roughly 750 homes. Grid officials said Reliant's share alone is about 3,000 megawatts. Reliant said the amount at issue actually is less than a fourth of that, because most of the power is committed under long-term contracts. Reliant, which provides about 9 percent of the state's power, worries it won't get paid due to the financial troubles of PG&E and Edison. PG&E and Edison say that together they have lost about $13 billion since June due to soaring wholesale electricity costs that California's 1996 deregulation law bars them from passing onto customers. At the same time, the state has faced a tight electricity supply, due in part to California power plant shutdowns for maintenance and to a tight hydroelectric supply in the Pacific Northwest. Managers of the state power grid imposed rolling blackouts across the state Monday and Tuesday as supply fell short of demand. Wednesday, cooling temperatures and the completion of repairs at several power plants allowed the state to avoid blackouts. State Controller Kathleen Connell said Wednesday that the energy crunch also imperils California's financial health. Connell said the state's power-buying on behalf of Edison and PG&E is is gutting its budget surplus. Since the state started making emergency power buys in January, the surplus has fallen from $8.5 billion to about $3.2 billion, she said. Connell ordered an audit of the state's power-buying, saying Davis is withholding key financial information from her office and the Legislature. She is refusing a request by Davis and the Legislature to transfer $5.6 billion into a "rainy day fund" she said was set up to impress Wall Street as the state prepares to issue $10 billion in revenue bonds to cover its power-buying. Transferring the money would leave the state general fund $2.4 billion in debt, Connell said. Sandy Harrison, spokesman for the state Department of Finance, and Keely Bosler of the Legislative Analyst's Office, said such transfers are routine and required by law. They put the state's budget surplus at $5.6 billion. "The law says she has to do it. The law does not give her the power to demand that kind of audit information," Harrison said. He said the state's budget isn't in danger because it will be repaid with the $10 billion in long-term debt. Wells Fargo & Co. chief economist Sung Won Sohn said he sees little progress in efforts to fix the state's power problems and end state electricity purchases. "If we're going to pour money into a bottomless pit, I would worry about the state's finances," he said. "At some point we're going to run out of money." The controller's criticism of fellow Democrat Davis won support from Assembly Republicans and Secretary of State Bill Jones, a Republican considering challenging Davis next year. Jones said he wants to announce his own plan to solve the state's energy woes, but can't unless Davis releases more financial details. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio dismissed the criticism. "Political grandstanding doesn't generate one more kilowatt of energy for California in this time of emergency," he said. Maviglio said the administration has released the financial information it can without jeopardizing negotiations for long-term power contracts with wholesalers. Also Wednesday, a report by Davis' chief power negotiator appears to show that as much as 75 percent of the state's power purchases will have to be on the expensive short-term market this summer, said Sen. Debra Bowen, D-Marina del Rey, chairwoman of the Senate Energy Committee. "The prices may be phenomenol," she said, particularly given predicted hydroelectric shortages due to drought in the Pacific Northwest. The report by David Freeman, who is negotiating the state's long-term power contracts, shows California has finalized 19 contracts and has 25 agreements in principle. Freeman said DWR is continuing to negotiate other contracts. Bowen said FERC should impose short-term price caps or let generators to charge enough to make a reasonable profit "or we could be subject to enormous price-gouging this summer." -- Associated Press ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------- State falling short on pacts that provide low-cost energy Published Thursday, March 22, 2001, in the San Jose Mercury News BY CHRIS O'BRIEN AND JOHN WOOLFOLK Mercury News The state has signed low-cost contracts for just a third of the energy it needs this year, raising the prospect that California could be forced to buy much of its electricity this summer on the expensive spot market. A spokesman for Gov. Gray Davis conceded Wednesday that the state will be in trouble without more contracts, but insisted California will meet its needs through conservation and additional long-term deals for cheap electricity. The state, according to a report released Wednesday, has fallen far short of the governor's goal of filling almost all its electricity needs through such deals. In fact, the state has lined up contracts for about half the amount Davis had projected earlier this month. If the state has to rely heavily on the volatile spot market, where the price of electricity this summer could reach five times the state's contract price, pressure could mount to raise the cap on the electricity rates consumers pay. But Steven Maviglio, the governor's spokesman, said, ``The governor has said he's committed to work this in the existing rate structure, so that's the plan.'' In the report sent to state lawmakers, the state Department of Water Resources indicated that it had secured just more than 20 million megawatt-hours for this year, leaving it far short of the 60 million megawatt-hours needed. ``This is just a progress report,'' Maviglio said. ``They did all this in three weeks, which is pretty amazing when you think about it, and we have a lot more to do.'' The state got into the power buying business in January, supplying it to the state's nearly bankrupt utilities. The state negotiated long-term contracts with generators to supply that power at a reduced rate. Based on the report, the state will pay an average of $68 per megawatt-hour over the next 10 years -- significantly less than in December when prices spiked higher than $300 per megawatt-hour but not as low as the $55 Davis hoped to reach. Most of this power, however, won't be delivered until 2004. From 2004 to 2006, the Department of Water Resources estimates, it has enough power under contract. Until then, the amount falls short. In 2001, it appears the state has about one-third of the power it needs. The gap closes to about half in 2002 and two-thirds in 2003. At a news conference in Los Angeles two weeks ago, Davis said the state would have to buy only 30 to 45 percent of the power it needs this summer on the open market. At the time, critics said with only two-thirds of the power under contract, a rate increase was almost inevitable. Even Davis' chief negotiator, S. David Freeman, offered a bleak assessment for the summer, saying that all available electricity has already been sold. ``We'll be subject to extremely high prices,'' said Frank Wolak, a Stanford professor who sits on a market committee for the Independent System Operator, the agency that runs the state power grid. Wolak said there are two main hopes for avoiding a price increase this summer: Federal officials could cap the wholesale price, a step they've resisted, or Californians can conserve an unprecedented amount of power. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- Crisis saps state surplus POWER CRISIS Controller moves to block a transfer of funds, saying the $8.5 billion surplus has been cut more than half since January By Mike Taugher TIMES STAFF WRITER The energy crisis has bled California's once-touted budget surplus by more than half since taxpayers began buying electricity two months ago, leading a top state finance official Wednesday to order an audit of the power purchases and block Gov. Gray Davis' plan to transfer funds into a reserve account. A booming economy last year produced a budget surplus that totaled $8.5 billion in January. But that figure now stands at about $3.2 billion, according to Controller Kathleen Connell. "We started this year with a generous budget surplus," Connell said in a statement announcing her decision to block what Davis administration officials described as a routine transfer of surplus money. "The energy crisis has taken much of that away, and this transfer on top of the electricity purchases would put the fund at risk." Meanwhile, the Davis administration released a report by David Freeman, the governor's chief negotiator on power purchases, on the progress of executing long-term agreements meant to stabilize the power buys. According to the report, only about 40 percent of the electricity needed from the open market this year has been lined up. That means the state could be forced to continue buying a substantial amount of power on the highly expensive spot market and further drain its coffers. And a key regulatory panel is scheduled next week to issue a ruling that would determine how quickly state funds will be replenished when it decides what portion of electric bill payments should be allocated to the state treasury, a decision that could include a rate increase to fully repay taxpayers without further crippling the state's two largest electric utilities. The Public Utilities Commission also will consider whether it will force the utilities to pay alternative energy producers, whose shutdowns this week contributed to blackouts. Connell's action underscores a growing nervousness over the sheer volume of money that is being poured into energy buys, despite the fact that state officials plan to replenish the treasury with up to $10 billion in loans that will be repaid by electricity consumers. The state has committed to spending $4.2 billion to date to keep lights on since taxpayers were forced in mid-January to take over electricity buys from the financially crippled utilities, Pacific Gas & Electric Co. and Southern California Edison. Tax money is going out at a clip of about $50 million a day. High prices already have brought PG&E and Edison to the brink of bankruptcy, and now the state's surplus is at risk, according to Connell. In addition to requesting an audit and announcing her intention to delay the transfer to the reserve account, Connell said she wanted the administration to send her office more information about the electricity purchases. Davis' representatives questioned Connell's authority in trying to block the funds transfer, which they called a routine accounting procedure, and accused her of making political hay. "It is not helpful to the taxpayers or ratepayers or the people who just want to keep the lights on, it isn't helpful to have the situation muddied like this," said Sandy Harrison, a Finance Department spokesperson. "We're sorry it came up in this manner." Connell and the administration have butted heads in recent weeks. The controller wants to post details of the state's electricity purchases on her Web site, a plan that have been delayed under pressure from Davis because of the governor's concerns that releasing those details will allow power generators and traders to sell at higher prices. Harrison said administration officials believe Connell lacks the authority either to block the funds transfer to a reserve account or to audit the state water resources department. Two days of widespread blackouts this week show how vulnerable the power grid is to financial glitches. Although several factors combined to produce the blackouts, state power officials say the outages could have been avoided if the utilities were paying their bills to alternative energy producers. Many of those producers, including clean-burning natural gas power plants, wind, solar and geothermal energy developers, shut down enough production to spell the difference between grid reliability and blackouts Monday and Tuesday. Davis called the utilities' failure to pay bills to those producers, known as qualifying facilities, "immoral." The QFs were either unable to buy gas from their suppliers or were frustrated with the utilities' failure to pay them. "The utilities hoarded billions of dollars since November without paying any money out," said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. "They've got the money -- we're pulling the trigger to make them pay it." The utilities, however, say they are doing all they can to conserve enough cash to continue operating. Together, they owe the QFs about $1.5 billion. Next week, the PUC is scheduled to consider whether to force the utilities to heed Davis' demand to pay the QFs, and it might also decide how much of ratepayers' bill payments will be used to refund taxpayers for power buys. PG&E says that under a formula proposed by the administration, the water resources department would receive about 40 percent of the money collected from ratepayers for power purchases. The rest of that money, about $240 million, would have to be divided among QFs, existing power contracts, operating PG&E's nuclear and hydroelectric plants, and what hour-by-hour purchases the utility still must make on the spot market, according to PG&E spokesman John Nelson. "There isn't enough to do that," he said. That is making it increasingly likely that electric bills will be hiked, according to a growing chorus of officials and experts. Unless rates are raised, Nelson said, the only entity that can absorb a lack of payment or a partial payment is the state treasury. Cutting off any others will lead to electricity becoming unavailable and more blackouts, he said. "If they do it under existing rates -- given that the existing pool of money is not enough -- who doesn't get paid or who gets a partial payment?" Nelson said. "What's the only entity left with wiggle room? The state." Rate hikes are also a sticking point in negotiations to bail out the utilities through purchase of their transmission lines and other assets, Maviglio said. "They want rate increases of significant magnitude, and we're not going there," he said. WE CAN TRIM STORY HERE IF NECESSARY, BUT KEEP TAGLINES AT BOTTOM About one-third the electricity needed by the customers of California's three major utility companies is produced by the companies themselves, one-third comes from alternative producers who use environmentally friendly techniques and one-third is bought on the open market. The state stepped in to buy the one-third needed from the open market after the utility companies ran out of cash and credit in January to make the purchases themselves. But that electricity has proven to be enormously expensive, and Davis has planned to lower those prices by committing to long-term purchases. Freeman's report on the progress of those long-term purchases, dated March 15 but released this week, said the state has finalized 19 contracts with seven suppliers and reached 25 additional agreements. Mike Taugher covers the environment and energy. Reach him at 925-943-8324 or mtaugher@cctimes.com. Staff writer Andrew LaMar contributed to this story. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- Bill to pay small energy firms stalls By Kevin Yamamura, Dale Kasler and Jim Sanders Bee Staff Writers (Published March 23, 2001) A quickly melded proposal that would assure payments for alternative energy suppliers whose money woes contributed to power blackouts this week stalled Thursday in a divided Legislature. The state Senate passed the bill, AB 8x, but with Republicans balking, it was rejected in the Assembly along party lines. Assembly leaders said they may try again today. For most of Thursday, lawmakers scrutinized legislation they had overhauled the night before to include Gov. Gray Davis' plan to force utilities to pay solar, wind and small gas-fired suppliers. Such providers, called "qualified facilities," or QFs, provide more than 20 percent of California's electricity, and their shutdowns were partly to blame for rolling blackouts Monday and Tuesday. Under the Democratic governor's plan, the state Public Utilities Commission would determine prices at which alternative generators may sell power, but legislation is needed to authorize the PUC action. Lawmakers faced time pressures Thursday. They wanted to pass the bill quickly so the PUC could act next week and legislators could embark Monday on an annual three-day lobbying trip in Washington, D.C. Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg, D-Sherman Oaks, said the Republicans' rejection of AB 8x could jeopardize more than $4 billion the state has spent or allocated for electricity during the energy crisis. Hertzberg said producers of alternative energy, which are owed more than $1 billion, have threatened to drag debt-ridden utilities into involuntary bankruptcy if the Legislature failed to pass the measure. "They said it, and I believe it," Hertzberg said. If such bankruptcies occur, he added, the state with its multibillion-dollar debt would become "just another creditor in a pile of creditors." But Assembly Republican leader Bill Campbell of Villa Park said the finger-pointing is unfair. Passage of AB 8x would not necessarily prevent bankruptcies, he said. One alternative energy provider won a crucial court ruling Thursday that staved off, at least for a while, threats by some creditors to haul one or both big utilities into bankruptcy court for nonpayment of bills. CalEnergy Co. Inc. won the right to sell its geothermal power, which was contracted to Southern California Edison, on the open market. CalEnergy said it is owed $45 million by Edison. If the Imperial County judge hadn't ruled in CalEnergy's favor, the company and seven other QFs "were fully prepared" to file an involuntary bankruptcy petition against Edison this morning, said David Sokol, chief executive of CalEnergy's parent, MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. of Des Moines, Iowa. "That is currently off the table." An involuntary bankruptcy proceeding would take California's energy crisis into uncharted territory, although a bankruptcy judge would have the leeway to reject the filing. Freed from its contract with Edison, CalEnergy will move to sell its electricity "to people who will pay for it," Sokol said. Besides calming the bankruptcy movement temporarily, the ruling also could prompt other alternative energy providers -- hundreds of which have shut down because of nonpayment by Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric Co. -- to follow CalEnergy's example and find other buyers for their electricity, said Gary Ackerman of the Western Power Trading Forum, an association of generators. Assembly Republicans said they felt the Senate's decision to package three important energy issues into a single bill was an attempt to ramrod legislation through both houses. "We have to stand and say no," Campbell said during floor debate. Besides determining alternative generator payments, the bill would change an earlier law by capping the value of bonds the state may sell for power purchases at $10 billion. It also would extend to large businesses an existing rate cap in the San Diego Gas and Electric Co. service area. And it would earmark a portion of rates paid by utility customers to fund the state's ongoing power purchases. Within a week, the state will have spent $4.2 billion on power since January. Without the bill, some legislators fear, Pacific Gas and Electric and Southern California Edison would be reimbursed before the state. "They have got (some) gall to go to the PUC and say they're going to go to court to keep our money -- to keep our money to pay off their creditors," said Senate President Pro Tem John Burton, D-San Francisco. Most of the bill's controversy, however, centered on how the PUC would treat gas-fired alternative generators. The commission issued a revised draft decision Wednesday that would impose prices for qualifying facilities at $79 a megawatt-hour for five-year contracts or $69 a megawatt-hour for 10 years. But those producers that use natural gas -- representing about two-thirds of the alternative energy providers in California -- spent Thursday arguing that Davis' plan to rescue them would all but guarantee that they would go out of business instead. The plan -- ordering Edison and PG&E to pay them a fixed price for their power -- would set rates well below the cost of natural gas, they said. Democratic lawmakers tried to assure such producers that the PUC would set prices that make business sense, even obtaining a letter to that effect from Loretta Lynch, who heads the commission. Davis has vowed to fine Edison and PG&E if they don't pay alternative producers for future deliveries. But Sokol said his company isn't convinced that Edison will pay. Calling Edison a "confrontive, in-your-face, nasty organization," Sokol said the utility was "sitting on $2 billion" and not paying its bills. Edison, in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Thursday, said its debts outweigh its cash reserves by $722 million. The Senate sent the Assembly two other bills that deal specifically with supply and demand. The first, SB 5x, would spend about $1 billion on energy conservation and low-income assistance programs. The other, SB 28x, would streamline siting procedures for power plant construction. In separate energy-related matters Thursday, the Assembly approved: AB 21x, which would allow businesses, industries or other electrical customers to negotiate private contracts with energy providers. Nine energy bills designed to generate or save 665 megawatts of electricity -- including 345 megawatts this summer. One megawatt is enough electricity to light about 1,000 homes. The state put power emergencies behind it, after dropping out of a Stage 1 alert late Wednesday. The California Independent System Operator, which manages the state's power transmission grid, was predicting no further alerts this week. It expected cooling temperatures and a regular dropoff in electricity use on Fridays to lessen demand, at the same time that more power plants were returning to service. Bee staff writer Carrie Peyton contributed to this report. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- House panel ends energy hearings -- will it step in? By David Whitney Bee Washington Bureau (Published March 23, 2001) WASHINGTON -- A key House panel wrapped up a series of hearings on the California electricity crisis Thursday and now will decide whether to come to the state's aid with legislation. But the panel's Texas chairman made clear that West Coast price controls won't be on the table. "Caps will not be in anything I am submitting," said Rep. Joe Barton, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's energy and air quality subcommittee. Some form of federal controls to hold down escalating wholesale prices this summer because of power shortages has been the most frequent appeal of witnesses who testified before the panel during roughly 30 hours of hearings over five days. Such controls have been sought by the governors of California, Oregon and Washington. As power shortages are forecast for other regions, states like New York also have appealed for temporary price controls to halt gouging. But the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which is responsible for enforcing reasonable wholesale rates under the Federal Power Act, has refused to impose them, and the Bush administration is bolstering that decision by opposing any legislation that would compel such action. Barton, in a brief hallway interview, declined to say what other legislative remedies he might propose to address the worsening California situation. He said he expects to submit a list of ideas to the White House today, and after receiving comment on it, sit down with other committee Republicans and Democrats next week to see if any legislation is in order. "If we are going to do anything to help California or the West this summer, we have to make it law within the next month or six weeks," Barton said. Even the panel's senior Democrat, Virginia Rep. Rick Boucher, was urging a "careful and deliberate approach" to the California crisis, which he said was largely of the state's own making. There are steps Congress might take to provide some help to the West, such as more money for conservation and relaxed federal regulation of air quality standards. That would permit older, more polluting generators to operate through a long, hot summer when electricity demand could exceed supply by about 3,000 megawatts, roughly the amount needed to power 3 million homes. But Alan Lloyd, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said power production already is being maximized without sacrificing air quality. "Simply put, no essential electricity generation has been curtailed due to air emission limitations," he said. "California's programs to protect public health are not major factors in the electricity shortages experienced to date." The concern is that as shortages turn into more rolling blackouts, wholesale prices will jump even higher and steadily bleed the economies of California and the West Coast. William L. Massey, the lone member of the energy regulatory commission who supports price controls, said at a Tuesday hearing that without them the West Coast faces economic catastrophe this summer. It was evident from the comments of some Republicans that they think their party could capitalize politically from a difficult summer. "If they had a bad summer, it could show up in the polls," said Rep. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga. "And sometimes that's not a bad idea." One of the most dramatic exchanges during the weeklong hearings came Thursday with S. David Freeman, the former general manager of the Sacramento Municipal Utility District who now heads the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. He recently was named Gov. Gray Davis' chief negotiator with power generators for long-term contracts to stabilize future deliveries. "Don't feel sorry for California," Freeman said. "We're going to come out of this stronger than ever." But Freeman said it will be a year or two before all the fixes are in place, and in the meantime the region desperately needs Congress' help to force the FERC into controlling wholesale prices, which witnesses said are likely to rise from $7 billion last year to as much as $70 billion or more this year. "We recognize that the current administration and various legislators have their own opinion as to the California situation," Freeman said. "But my personal plea is that if the federal government is not going to help us, the least it should do is refrain from legislation that attempts to tell us what to do." Barton perked up at that idea. "Leave California alone, huh?" Barton said. "That might be a good motto." ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- Dan Walters: Crisis deepens: politicos panic (Published March 23, 2001) That choking sound you hear is California's political class shifting into near-panic mode as it realizes that the energy crisis is on the verge of becoming a full-scale meltdown, with utilities forced into bankruptcy and consumers hammered by severe and prolonged power blackouts and soaring electricity bills. The Legislature, which had been content to allow Gov. Gray Davis to handle the crisis on his own, suddenly came to life Thursday, jolted by this week's unexpected rolling blackouts and threats by creditors to force the utilities into bankruptcy court. Lawmakers quickly fashioned a basketful of legislation aimed -- or so they hope -- at increasing power supplies, promoting conservation and relieving the financial pressure on utilities and electricity generators. But it may be too little, too late -- and Davis and other politicians are already pointing fingers of blame, aware that a political price will be paid if the apocalypse strikes. While Davis chants his mantra that he inherited a fatally flawed utility deregulation scheme from predecessor Pete Wilson, Republicans are blaming Davis for moving too slowly after the crisis first surfaced last summer, and even some of Davis' fellow Democrats are distancing themselves from the governor. "Deregulation was a product of a Republican governor, a Republican author and a Republican PUC (Public Utilities Commission) that was unduly impatient," Davis said at one point this week as the Capitol buzzed with private negotiations and public posturing. A day later, however, state Controller Kathleen Connell, a Democrat, issued a warning that Davis' power purchases, running at $50 million a day, had already drawn down state budget reserves by nearly two-thirds, and she refused to authorize additional transfers. It was a direct shot by Connell at Davis, an old rival, and came just a day after the governor had endorsed a Connell foe, Antonio Villaraigosa, in the duel for mayor of Los Angeles. Other Democrats didn't join Connell's direct challenge to Davis, but there is, nevertheless, a growing concern among Democratic legislators that the power purchases are costing many billions of dollars more than the governor had projected and could place the state budget in jeopardy. They're nervous because Davis has refused to reveal, even to legislators, exactly how much power the state is buying each day and how much it is paying. From the few details that have been disclosed, it's clear that the state is spending about $1.5 billion a month, which would wipe out the state's reserves by midsummer. It's also becoming increasingly clear that Davis probably can't make good on his promise to avoid major consumer rate increases, unless the state is willing to plunge deeply and semi-permanently into debt to underwrite wholesale costs, or unless federal authorities order huge refunds from power suppliers. Rates in areas served by private utilities have risen only slightly while the costs, first to utilities and later to the state, soared. Data from the administration and utilities, when collated, indicate that the state is in line to collect just 20 cents for every dollar it's spending on power purchases, and the gap will increase as summer heat drives up demand. Privately, some economists say that private utility rates will have to rise 33 percent to 50 percent to cover costs of current power supplies, plus utilities' past debts to generators and the state's purchase of the utilities' transmission system, if that deal is made final. "It's ultimately going to break down, and the ratepayer is going to pay for it one way or the other," Republican Sen. Jim Battin said during one of Thursday's many committee hearings on utility legislation. No one disagreed with him. DAN WALTERS' column appears daily, except Saturday. Mail: P.O. Box 15779, Sacramento, CA 95852; phone (916) 321-1195; fax: (781) 846-8350 E-mail: dwalters@sacbee.com Recent columns: http://www.capitolalert.com/voices/index_walters.html ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------ Report says power wholesalers overcharged state $6 billion By Don Thompson ASSOCIATED PRESS March 22, 2001 SACRAMENTO ) Electricity wholesalers have overcharged California more than $6.2 billion by manipulating the energy market, according to a report by an economist working for power grid managers. The Independent System Operator planned to file the findings with federal regulators Thursday, and ask for a refund, said ISO spokesman Patrick Dorinson. In a related development, the state auditor said Thursday that the state's 1996 deregulation law encouraged both buyers and sellers of electricity to "manipulate wholesale prices to their advantage" by underestimating both supply and demand. Disappearing state surplus sparks alarm Outages darken economic outlook in state, some say Out-of-state generators question power regulators' authority Allegheny Energy makes big California connection Enron stock slides despite earnings reassurance California's electricity crisis at-a-glance ? The auditor's report lays out what it calls "a complex combination" of deficiencies and misjudgments it says led to the state's power problems. The ISO's filing came a day after the state controller complained that a relentless energy crisis is jeopardizing California's financial future. Since May, the companies manipulated the market by bidding at excessive prices, effectively withholding supplies or by not bidding at all when they had generation capability available, according to the ISO study. ISO Director of Market Analysis Anjali Sheffrin presented the findings at an energy conference at the University of California, Berkeley, last week. The companies have denied overcharging California and have said they expect the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission will determine their prices were justified. In a burst of activity after weeks of delay, both houses of the Legislature approved bills Thursday designed to ease the energy crisis. The state Senate approved measures to encourage energy conservation and speed up power plant construction. Topping that, the Assembly sent the Senate 14 energy-related bills, including $455 million in loans and grants to encourage energy efficiency and conservation and alternative energy projects by this summer. One of the Assembly bills would require new energy plants approved by the state to sell their power within California before they offer it to other states. "The (California) Energy Commission says for every day we delay this bill there are 20 megawatts that could be saved that we're not saving," said state Sen. Byron Sher, D-Stanford, as senators voted 28-10 to send his conservation measure to the Assembly. Senators also approved another Sher bill speeding up the siting of power plants. It went to the Assembly on a 37-1 vote. Meanwhile, a federal judge issued a preliminary injunction Wednesday ordering one of the companies named in the ISO filing, Reliant Energy Services, to continue selling to California despite its fear that it will not be paid. U.S. District Judge Frank C. Damrell Jr. said Californians were at risk of irreparable harm if Reliant stopped selling power to the ISO, which buys at the last minute on behalf of utilities to bolster supplies and try to fend off blackouts. Such blackouts struck the state twice this week, shutting off power to hundreds of thousands of people from San Diego to Oregon, snarling traffic and shutting down businesses. The state remained free of any power alerts Thursday morning, as power reserves stayed above 7 percent. Damrell dismissed Reliant's attempt to force the state Department of Water Resources to back the ISO's purchases for the state's two biggest utilities, Southern California Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric Co. The judge said he had no authority to force the DWR to pay for that power. The utilities have been denied credit after amassing billions of dollars in debt paying high prices for power that the state's energy deregulation law prevents them from passing on to consumers. Gov. Gray Davis has said the state isn't responsible for purchasing the costly last-minute power the ISO buys for Edison and PG&E, despite a law authorizing state power purchases on the utilities' behalf. ISO attorney Charles Robinson said the ruling gives ISO operators "a tool to assist them in keeping the lights on in California." "Had the decision gone the other way, one could expect other generators to simply ignore emergency orders," Robinson said. Damrell's preliminary injunction will remain in effect until the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rules on the matter. In another development Wednesday, state Controller Kathleen Connell complained that the energy crunch is imperiling California's financial health. Connell said the state's power buying on behalf of Edison and PG&E is gutting its budget surplus. Since the state started making emergency power buys in January, the surplus has fallen from $8.5 billion to about $3.2 billion, she said. Connell ordered an audit of the state's power buying, saying Davis is withholding key financial information from her office and the Legislature. She is also refusing a request by Davis and the Legislature to transfer $5.6 billion into a "rainy day fund" she said was set up to impress Wall Street as the state prepares to issue $10 billion in revenue bonds to cover its power buying. Transferring the money would leave the state general fund $2.4 billion in debt, Connell said. Sandy Harrison, spokesman for the state Department of Finance, and Keely Bosler of the Legislative Analyst's Office, said such transfers are routine and required by law. They put the state's budget surplus at $5.6 billion. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio dismissed the criticism. "Political grandstanding doesn't generate one more kilowatt of energy for California in this time of emergency," he said. Connell is a candidate for mayor of Los Angeles in next month's election. The ISO study, meanwhile, covered five major in-state power suppliers ) Reliant, Dynegy, Williams/AES, Duke Energy and Mirant, as well as 16 power importers. All deliver power to customers of Edison, PG&E and San Diego Gas & Electric Co., the state's three largest investor-owned utilities. "All overcharged, but some excessively and some by moderate amounts," said ISO's Sheffrin. According to the report, the overcharging took place beginning last May, when the energy crisis began, and continued through last month. During that time, according to the report, energy suppliers commonly offered their electricity at twice the amount it cost them to produce. FERC member William L. Massey said he wasn't shocked to hear the amount overcharged added up to more than $5 billion. "Prices over the past 10 months in California have greatly exceeded the federal standards of just and reasonable prices, and I think they have exceeded the standards by possibly billions of dollars," he said. Chuck Griffin, spokesman for Atlanta-based Mirant said the company would justify their charges to FERC officials. "I think we're missing sometimes just how basic the problem is in California. Supply and demand are out of whack and some basic rules of economics kick in when that happens," he said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------- Disappearing state surplus sparks alarm Controller puts hold on transfer of $5.6 billion to reserve funds By Karen Kucher and Ed Mendel UNION-TRIBUNE STAFF WRITERS March 22, 2001 The state's general fund surplus has dropped to $3.2 billion from $8.5 billion since January largely because California's power purchases are devouring the money, state controller Kathleen Connell said yesterday. Connell said she wants to see more documentation about state power spending before approving the transfer of $5.6 billion from the general fund to a special reserve fund requested by Gov. Gray Davis. Connell said the state would have to borrow $2.4 billion to cover the transfer. Report says power wholesalers overcharged California $5.5 billion Outages darken economic outlook in state, some say Out-of-state generators question power regulators' authority Allegheny Energy makes big California connection Enron stock slides despite earnings reassurance California's electricity crisis at-a-glance ? "We started this year with a generous budget surplus. The energy crisis has taken much of that away, and this transfer on top of the electricity purchases would put the (general) fund at risk," Connell said in a statement. Her action came on a day when state power supplies improved. After two days of forced outages this week, no rolling blackouts were ordered yesterday. Several power plants came back on line and imports from the Pacific Northwest provided enough electricity to meet demand yesterday, said Stephanie McCorkle, a spokeswoman with the California Independent System Operator, which manages most of the state's power grid. "Gradually more (electricity) generation comes on every day," McCorkle said. "By Monday, we should see somewhere around 2,200 megawatts back in service that was not on this Monday. That's if no other generation falls off." Meanwhile, Connell's move took some by surprise. A spokesman for the state Department of Finance said Connell is denying a routine transfer that is required by law. "It was just a routine accounting measure that we didn't anticipate becoming controversial," Sandy Harrison said. Connell announced the denial of the transfer a day after Davis endorsed one of her opponents, former Assembly Speaker Antonio Villaraigosa, in the race for Los Angeles mayor. Connell, who monitors California's cash flow, said she was "deeply concerned about putting the state's general fund in a deficit situation in light of the energy crisis." About two months ago, the state began spending about $50 million a day to buy power after Pacific Gas and Electric and Southern California Edison nearly went bankrupt. It is also purchasing power for customers of San Diego Gas and Electric. The Davis administration said earlier this week it soon will begin spending an additional $500 million on power purchases, bringing the total to $4.2 billion. As that staggering sum continues to grow, the state won a court battle with an electricity supplier yesterday. A federal judge in Sacramento sided with the state and ordered the wholesaler to continue selling to California despite its fear that it will not get paid. Judge Frank C. Damrell Jr. said Californians were at risk of irreparable harm if Reliant Energy Services stopped selling power to the Independent System Operator. The ISO acquires last-minute power on behalf of utilities to fill gaps in supply to try to fend off blackouts. Damrell dismissed Reliant's attempt to force the state Department of Water Resources to back the ISO's purchases for the state's two biggest utilities. The judge said he had no authority to force the DWR to pay for the power. Davis has said the state isn't responsible for purchasing the costly last-minute power the ISO buys for Edison and PG&E, despite a law authorizing state power purchases on the utilities' behalf. Meanwhile, those who manage the power grid say the forecast for power supplies this week looks good, although conditions can change quickly. ISO managers continue to stress the importance of conservation. Utility customers across the state conserved about 900 megawatts of power Tuesday, which kept blackouts from being ordered that night. As the power crisis worsened this week, ISO managers wished aloud that they still could rely on business customers to shut down in exchange for lower energy rates. Such "interruptible" customers saved as much as 2,100 megawatts last spring, a figure that dropped to about 1,700 last summer and 1,400 at the end of the year. But in January, the state Public Utilities Commission told utilities they could no longer impose fines on business customers who refuse to shut down when asked. ISO managers realize the program was harming businesses with frequent interruptions of service -- but they still miss having that option, McCorkle said. "It would have made an enormous difference, but at the same time we understand the impact it was having on businesses," McCorkle said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- Outages darken economic outlook in state, some say By Dean Calbreath? UNION-TRIBUNE STAFF WRITER March 22, 2001 Until this week, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce was predicting that the county was well-insulated from the growing threat of economic recession. But that was before the lights went out in the chamber's downtown headquarters Monday. Working by window light in his darkened office, chamber economist Kelly Cunningham rapidly erased his previous projections for 3.5 percent growth for San Diego County. Cunningham now feels the local economy could fall into a recession thanks to its shaky supply of energy. Report says power wholesalers overcharged California $5.5 billion Disappearing state surplus sparks alarm Out-of-state generators question power regulators' authority Allegheny Energy makes big California connection Enron stock slides despite earnings reassurance California's electricity crisis at-a-glance ? "Blackouts are very disruptive to the economy," Cunningham said. "A business can absorb rising energy prices by cutting costs or raising its own prices. But an energy shutoff is much less predictable. It cuts into productivity." Those sentiments are being echoed throughout California, as business leaders and economists worry that rolling blackouts will darken the state's previously glowing economy. At the University of California Los Angeles, for instance, leading financial theorists will meet April 4 to discuss the question "Can California grow in the dark?" Although the topic was chosen before the recent string of power outages, the blackouts have given the issue new urgency. "These blackouts are not just a single episode," said UCLA economist Tom Lieser. "They are a bridge to what will happen this summer. If we don't fall into a recession in the second half of the year, we will fall pretty close." Tapan Munroe, an economist formerly with Pacific Gas and Electric, this week crossed out his projection for 2 percent statewide growth. After blackouts rolled toward his consulting offices in the Bay Area city of Moraga, Munroe decided the state will be lucky if it manages zero growth. "I'm a pretty optimistic guy by nature, but this has been sobering," Munroe said. "On Tuesday, one restaurant alone in San Francisco lost $20,000. Multiply that by all of the businesses that lost power in the state and you've got a serious problem." Two days of blackouts in San Diego County have hurt businesses large and small. Among the industries under threat is the local biotechnology sector, which requires a steady supply of electricity to power areas of laboratories that must remain temperature-controlled and sterile. Continued blackouts "could have a huge impact, not only in dollars, but multiple millions of dollars," said Tom Oster, vice president of operations for BioCom, the leading trade organization for the more than 200 biotechs in San Diego County. Idun Pharmaceuticals, a biotech near La Jolla Village Drive that has 67 employees, had its power cut for about 40 minutes Tuesday. Though the company has a back-up generator, some segments of its laboratories and lab equipment were not supported by it. Chemists also had to turn off some sensitive lab equipment to avoid the possibility of a damaging power surge once the blackout was over. "We're not in a position as a small company to back up the whole facility," said Steven Mento, Idun's chief executive. "We haven't done a survey yet to determine whether we had losses, either in experiments or equipment damaged -- but we're hoping because the blackout was so short that damage will be minimal." Mento said rolling blackouts, coupled with continuing high energy costs, could cripple many small biotechs -- and even take a bite out of bigger, more established companies. "We generate new compounds in controlled environments on a daily basis, and when power goes off you can lose samples because of contamination and other issues," Mento said. "We are fortunate that our losses would be in having to repeat an experiment -- but this could be really critical for companies with drug manufacturing and issues of quality control." The wireless firms along Sorrento Valley have not been immune from blackouts. The lights went out at Qualcomm early this week, although executives declined to comment about the impact. No blackouts hit the big shipbuilding operations on the waterfront this week. But the National Steel and Shipbuilding Co. -- one of San Diego's largest employers -- already experienced a voluntary loss of power this year, its first since World War II. Since the shipyard does not have its own power supply, NASSCO executives fear the effect of unplanned outages. "Our average payroll totals half a million dollars a day," said NASSCO spokesman Jim Scott. "When you have a day's work disrupted, that can be pretty serious. We're currently in discussions about the possibility of buying from independent power suppliers, or setting up a power plant of our own." Small businesses, which constitute the bulk of employment in San Diego County, were hurt by disruptions as well -- costing them vital revenue at a time when their power bills have skyrocketed. At Fantastic Sam's, a hair salon in Chula Vista, Angelica Alcala estimated that business dropped 60 percent when the blackouts hit Tuesday. Among other things, Alcala had to alter her planned haircuts because she was relying on scissors instead of electric clippers. At the Family Fun Center in El Cajon, the management gave vouchers or refunds to the 15 or so video-game players who were in the midst of killing aliens or fighting ninja warriors as the power went down. Papa John's Pizza estimates that it may have lost several thousand dollars in business after six stores were blacked out Monday and four others lost power Tuesday. Brian Mills, who runs 23 Papa John's stores in the county, said his main concern was shutting down the computers so they would not be damaged by a power surge when the electricity was restored. Paul Ecke III, a member of the West Coast advisory panel for the Federal Reserve, said the potential impact of the energy crisis "is worse than any downturn in the stock market." Ecke, who runs the Paul Ecke Ranch flower operation in Encinitas, said the crisis could be particularly harmful for the state's agricultural sector, since farmers need electricity to pump water and natural gas to heat greenhouses. "What I'm really worried about is the energy thing is going to cast a shadow on California," he said. "If you're a business person thinking about moving to California right now, you're probably not going to do it because you're not sure you're going to have your lights on this summer." Besides the disruption to businesses, the energy crisis is also hurting the pocketbooks of hourly workers who have been sent home during the crisis. Under state law, employers are free to send hourly workers home without pay during such emergencies, although salaried workers must still be paid. Susan Kemp, an attorney with the California Chamber of Commerce, said there are ways of minimizing the impact on hourly workers. "You have to look at what time it is when the blackout occurs and how long you think it's going to last," Kemp said. "If it's around a meal time, you might send the workers out for a longer meal period if you think it's going to be an hour or hour and a half delay." But the potential for losing wages doesn't sit well with the hourly workers. "When you get sent home early and lose your wages, you have even less money to pay your inflated energy bills," said an hourly worker who was sent home during Monday's blackout. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------- Out-of-state generators question power regulators' authority By Karen Gaudette ASSOCIATED PRESS March 22, 2001 SAN FRANCISCO ) At least three major out-of-state electricity generators are challenging the authority of the California Public Utilities Commission to investigate whether they deliberately reduced power supplies to drive up prices. The PUC has asked for power plant maintenance records as it tries to determine whether Duke Energy, Dynegy Inc., Mirant Corp. and other wholesalers have manipulated the energy market at California's expense. At issue is who ultimately controls oversight of in-state plants that provide most of California's electricity. The plants, once owned by the state's largest utilities, were sold off as part of the state's 1996 attempt at deregulation. Report says power wholesalers overcharged California $5.5 billion Disappearing state surplus sparks alarm Outages darken economic outlook in state, some say Allegheny Energy makes big California connection Enron stock slides despite earnings reassurance California's electricity crisis at-a-glance ? PUC President Loretta Lynch said the public deserves to know whether generators have unnecessarily taken plants off-line to create artificial shortages, forcing the utilities and now state bureaucrats to buy much higher priced power on the spot energy market. "What I do know is we have historically high levels of outages across the board," Lynch told The Associated Press. "Dynegy and Duke have been fighting the PUC in the PUC's quest to obtain documents about these outages." The PUC has the authority to regulate facilities within its borders, she added. "It doesn't matter where the headquarters of the company is." Duke, based in North Carolina, says it does matter ) and that since it and other wholesalers aren't headquartered in California, the PUC can't require it to turn over the maintenance records. "We have not given them proprietary information because they do not regulate us," said Duke's spokesman, Tom Williams. Dynegy did not return calls for comment Wednesday. The PUC also faces a new challenge in the legislature. A bill sponsored by Assemblywoman Carole Migden, D-San Francisco, which would have granted the PUC greater inspection authority over out-of-state generators, was amended this month to grant the authority to Independent System Operator instead. The ISO has managed the delivery of energy through most of the state's power grid but historically has done little regulating and has had no policing authority. This board, created during the state's 1996 attempt at deregulation, was redesigned in January. Now it has a five-member board appointed by Davis, replacing a 26-member ISO board composed of utility executives, marketers, power plant owners and others. The latest version of Migden's bill requires wholesalers to report monthly to the ISO about any plants that are off-line or working at reduced capacity, and gives the ISO power to audit these reports. But because the ISO board historically has made key decisions behind closed doors and is exempt from certain open-government regulations, government watchdogs are outraged by the switch. "The PUC's been no friend of ratepayers, but at least under the constitution and state law they're required to conduct their process in the open and the public can intervene," said Harvey Rosenfield of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights. Davis ordered last month that the ISO take the lead among state agencies to ensure adequate energy supplies. Alan LoFaso, an aide to Migden, said the amendment follows Davis' lead. Both LoFaso and the governor's spokesman, Steve Maviglio, downplayed the change. "I don't know if we have a preference" as to which state agency gets the authority to continue the probe, Maviglio said. The challenge by Duke Energy, Houston-based Dynegy Inc. and Mirant Corp. of Atlanta came in filings March 12 asking for a rehearing of the PUC's February resolution reasserting its legal authority to "examine the books, accounts, memoranda, contracts and records" of generators selling energy to utilities already subject to PUC regulation. Those utilities include Pacific Gas and Electric Co. and Southern California Edison Co., which have been nearly bankrupted buying power from wholesalers, as well as the financially troubled San Diego Gas and Electric ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Allegheny Energy makes big California connection ASSOCIATED PRESS March 22, 2001 HAGERSTOWN, Md. ) Allegheny Energy Inc. said Thursday it has agreed to sell $4.5 billion worth of power to California's electricity-purchasing agency over the next 10 years. The company said the contract call for Allegheny to provide up to 1,000 megawatts that the Hagerstown-based company has secured from western generating plants through its new energy trading division, Allegheny Energy Global Markets ) formerly Merrill Lynch Global Energy Markets. "This is a win-win for both the state of California and Allegheny Energy. It provides a long-term source of fixed-price energy and should help to stabilize prices in California," said Michael P. Morrell, president of the Allegheny Energy Supply division. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------- Judge Frees Small Firm From Edison Contract By KEN ELLINGWOOD and DAN MORAIN, Times Staff Writers ?????EL CENTRO--California's balance of electrical power shifted slightly Thursday when an Imperial County judge temporarily freed a small geothermal energy producer from its contract with Southern California Edison, allowing it to sell power on the open market. ?????The ruling by Superior Court Judge Donal B. Donnelly could lead to a mass exodus by hundreds of small energy producers that have been selling power to the state's financially troubled utilities for months without getting paid. ?????At the same time, it may have staved off plans by a group of the small generators to send Edison into involuntary bankruptcy as early as today. ?????In Sacramento, energy legislation pushed by Gov. Gray Davis passed in the state Senate but foundered in the Assembly. The measure was intended to ensure that the state gets repaid for the electricity that it has been buying on behalf of Edison and Pacific Gas & Electric, which say they lack the cash and credit to purchase power. The bill also was supposed to guarantee that the small, alternative energy producers--which together provide nearly a third of the state's power--get paid. But Assembly Republicans opposed it, saying it hadn't been given sufficient scrutiny. ?????The impact of the small producers was made clear in Imperial County, where Edison's failure to pay CalEnergy, the county's biggest property taxpayer, had outsize implications. CalEnergy had put county officials on notice that it was about to miss a $3.8-million property tax payment. The uncertainty had prompted the tiny Calipatria Unified School District to postpone a bond issue for badly needed school repairs. ?????Among CalEnergy Chairman David Sokol's first acts after the judge's ruling Thursday was to promise Imperial County Supervisor Wally J. Leimgruber that the company would pay its property taxes on time. ?????"That is great news," Leimgruber said. ?????Within hours of its court victory, CalEnergy had stopped transmitting geothermal power to Edison and begun selling it to El Paso Energy, a marketing company that purchased the energy at prevailing rates and resold it on the spot market. ?????Some of the more than 700 other small energy producers in the state said they were considering similar action against Edison and Pacific Gas & Electric. ?????"We absolutely need the right to sell to third parties," said Dean Vanech, president of Delta Power, a New Jersey company that owns five small gas-fired plants in California and is owed tens of millions of dollars by Edison. ?????Sokol praised the Imperial County judge and said his company simply wanted the authority to sell its power "to a credit-worthy company that, in fact, pays for the power." ?????An Edison spokesman said the company was disappointed with the ruling, but sympathized with CalEnergy and other small producers because "California's power crisis has placed [them] in financial distress, just as it has placed utilities in financial distress." ?????Edison expressed concern that the ruling would prompt CalEnergy and other small producers to sell their power out of state. Sokol said CalEnergy had specifically told El Paso Energy that it hoped its power would remain in California, "but if someone wants to pay a higher price out of state, we can't stop them." ?????Sokol said that Edison still owes CalEnergy $140 million and that the company--along with seven other small producers--had been prepared to file a petition in federal bankruptcy court in Los Angeles today forcing the utility into involuntary bankruptcy. He said his company no longer intends to do so, and he believed--but wasn't certain--that the other companies would shelve their plans. ?????Edison filed papers Thursday with the federal Securities and Exchange Commission showing that it owed $840 million to various small electricity producers, many of which rely on renewable energy sources such as geothermal steam, solar energy or wind. ?????The alternative energy producers--and utilities--strenuously objected to the legislation considered in Sacramento on Thursday. The bill, spelling out how the utilities are to pay the state and the small producers, passed the Senate on a 27-9 vote, the exact two-thirds margin required. But it stalled in the Assembly on a 46-23 party-line vote, well short of two-thirds. ?????"When I was a citizen back in Lancaster, I heard these stories about pieces of legislation that were cooked up late at night, that . . . were cut and pasted together and were rammed through by the Legislature," Assemblyman George Runner (R-Lancaster) said. "That's exactly what we have before us." ?????The alternative electricity generators, including oil companies, warned that they would lose money under the Davis proposal, while representatives of Edison and PG&E, which have amassed billions in debt in the worsening energy crisis, said the legislation would push them deeper into the hole. ?????"There isn't enough money," Edison attorney Ann Cohn testified at a Senate hearing on the bill Thursday. "It is a very simple question: Dollars going out cannot be greater than dollars coming in." ?????The bill, AB 8X, combined several proposals. First, it sought to clarify earlier legislation by spelling out that Edison and PG&E must pay the state all money collected from consumers for electricity that the state has been buying. ?????Additionally, the bill would turn over to the California Public Utilities Commission the thorny issue of how much to pay alternative energy producers for their electricity. ?????Wind, solar and geothermal producers might agree to the prices offered by the administration. But most of the alternative energy producers, including Chevron and British Petroleum, use natural gas to generate electricity through "cogeneration," a process of creating steam for both electric generation and heat. With natural gas prices high, they contend, they would lose money at the prices Davis is offering. --- ?????Ellingwood reported from El Centro, Morain from Sacramento. Times staff writers Mitchell Landsberg in Los Angeles and Jenifer Warren, Nancy Vogel and Carl Ingram in Sacramento contributed to this story. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------- Lodi Defies Order for Blackouts Utility tells PG&E to 'pay the bills' Alan Gathright, Chronicle Staff Writer Friday, March 23, 2001 ,2001 San Francisco Chronicle URL: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2001/03/23/M N171303.DTL Let history show that the rebellion against rolling blackouts started when the Central Valley town of Lodi defied PG&E and refused to unplug its customers this week. Like several cities that own their own utilities, Lodi saw the energy crunch looming last fall and spent millions for long-term power contracts in an attempt to avoid blackouts. Now, Lodi and a Northern California municipal utility cooperative that includes Palo Alto, Santa Clara and Alameda are telling Pacific Gas and Electric Co. that it's unfair to force their customers to endure blackouts triggered by the near-bankrupt utility's failure to pay its debts. "The problem is not paying bills, so pay the bills," said Alan Vallow, director of the utility serving Lodi's 58,000 residents. "I won't arbitrarily screw my customers . . . so 5,000 PG&E customers can turn on their lights somewhere else." When PG&E relayed an order from state power regulators Monday and Tuesday for Lodi to black out some of its customers, a strategy intended to keep the West's power grid from collapsing, Lodi said no. So far, other cities in the Northern California Power Agency say they will continue to participate in rotating outages. But in a letter last Friday to PG&E, members of the agency and four other utility districts, including Sacramento's, warned they didn't believe long- standing agreements that allow them to use PG&E transmission lines to connect to the grid obliged them to endure rolling blackouts because of "PG&E's failure to pay its power obligations." They say the agreements require them to reduce power demand only in response to natural disasters or malfunctions damaging power lines or plants. The agencies asked for a meeting with PG&E President Gordon Smith before anticipated summer blackouts hit, "to develop a more rational program for allocation of risks associated with (power demand) load shedding before you call on us to participate in load shedding again." REFUSING TO SHARE BURDEN PG&E officials accused Lodi of selfishly refusing to share the burden of the statewide energy crisis. "It is regrettable that after reaping the benefits of the (power grid) interconnection contract for many years, Lodi is suddenly unwilling to bear their share of the burden of the statewide energy crisis," said PG&E spokesman Ron Low. "When cities like Lodi do not follow the (state Independent System Operator's) order to curtail power, it hurts all of California and jeopardizes the entire power grid." Low also disagreed with accusations that this week's blackouts were triggered by PG&E's failure to pay its bills, noting that the ISO stated that 12,000 megawatts of power were offline because of plant maintenance. But ISO spokeswoman Lisa Szot confirmed assertions by the municipal utilities that power generators had kept an additional 3,000 megawatts offline because they feared PG&E couldn't pay. Lodi's Vallow said he was legally obliged to serve city customers. Lodi residents are facing rate increases of as much as 15 percent under a power contract that the city secured in hopes of avoiding blackouts. The contract required Lodi to pay a $10 million premium above its typical $23 million annual energy bill. 'THAT'S NOT FAIR' "I've been hearing (PG&E say), 'Gee, that's not fair. Where's the equity if everybody is doing rolling blackouts and you're not?' " Vallow said. "Well, I put my customers at financial risk to the tune of $10 million. And if they're not going to get to use that power they paid for, then by God, give us that money back." Vallow said he was willing to sell PG&E some of Lodi's power surplus, knowing Lodi might not be paid. "But I'm not willing to turn off 5,000 customers, so 5,000 customers somewhere else can turn their lights on," Vallow said. "The objective here, people, is to keep as many lights on as possible." Other city-owned utilities, while annoyed with the rolling blackouts, aren't going as far as Lodi. WEATHERING BLACKOUTS "I certainly understand the frustrations of utilities like Lodi and actually share those frustrations in many cases," said John Roukema, assistant director of Santa Clara's utility. But he stressed that his agency had been able to weather blackouts without hurting residents or small business, because 17 major industrial power users had agreed to curtail demand during energy alerts. "The prudent thing to do at this time is to continue to do our share and participate in rolling blackouts, because a single problem could cause a catastrophic failure in the statewide system," Roukema said. In Alameda, residents endured blackouts this week despite the fact that city has secured reliable power supplies, said Matt McCabe, spokesman for Alameda Power & Telecom. "It was in the best of interests of Alamedans to maintain the stability and integrity of the grid," he said. "Now, if it becomes evident that the system is being jeopardized for financial reasons, then we should not have to subject Alamedans to rolling blackouts." In Palo Alto, which also had blackouts this week, utility officials told the City Council they were expecting a 30 to 40 percent rate hike this spring to pay new contracts guaranteeing a stable power supply, said Councilman Bern Beecham. The city hopes to avoid giving customers the double whammy of rate boosts and more blackouts with a program that gets industrial users to cut demand voluntarily during alerts. "When there's not enough generating capacity in the state to protect the integrity of the grid, that is in fact everybody's problem," Beecham said, but that doesn't mean Palo Alto is willing to endure blackouts to prop up PG&E's ailing finances. "We need to have some very frank discussions with PG&E about mutual obligations," Beecham said. Energy Tips With Californians facing electricity and natural gas shortages, PG&E has several tips to help conserve both: -- Set the furnace thermostat at 68 degrees or lower, health permitting. -- Wash only full loads in a dishwasher. If operating instructions allow, turn dishwasher off before the drying cycle and let dishes dry naturally. -- Use low-wattage or fluorescent lights. -- Fix defective plumbing and dripping faucets, which waste water and increase the gas or electric bill for heating the water. -- Plug gaps around pipes, ducts, fans and vents that go through walls, ceilings and floors. -- Keep furnaces clean, and clean or replace the filter regularly. -- Turn heaters down when using a fireplace, and close the damper when not using the fireplace. -- On sunny days, open drapes on windows facing south and let the sun shine in. At night, close the drapes to retain indoor heat. Source: www.pge.com E-mail Alan Gathright at agathright@sfchronicle.com. ,2001 San Francisco Chronicle ? Page?A - 1 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------- Coming Down to the Wire State legislators battle over alternative energy bills Greg Lucas, Robert Salladay, Chronicle Sacramento Bureau Friday, March 23, 2001 ,2001 San Francisco Chronicle URL: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2001/03/23/M N113351.DTL Sacramento -- After several weeks of slow to no progress in attacking the state's energy mess, the Legislature erupted yesterday into a frenzy of energy activity. The sudden action on a series of energy bills -- including one to let businesses buy power directly from generators -- stemmed initially from the fear of bad publicity lawmakers might receive for a planned three-day junket next week to Washington, D.C. When a key bill bogged down in the Assembly late yesterday, Speaker Bob Hertzberg, D-Sherman Oaks, announced the trip was canceled. Another reason for the flurry of action was recognition that time is running out. Several alternative energy producers -- like wind farms and biomass plants - - said they were one day away from forcing the state's two biggest utilities into bankruptcy because they were owed more than $1 billion. The Legislature's action and a court ruling that could free alternative producers from unpaid contracts. "This is triage, members of the Senate," said Sen. Jim Costa, D-Fresno. "This is crisis activity we're engaged in." The Senate approved a bill aimed at helping state regulators get cash to some alternative energy producers. Most of them have been paid little or nothing since November by the utilities they sell electricity to. Senators passed a bill to help the Public Utilities Commission order utilities to pay solar, wind and other alternative energy producers who sign lower-priced contracts with the utilities. The bill failed in the Assembly because of GOP opposition, fanned in part by price concerns by the oil industry, a major co-generation producer. The Assembly is set to meet again today to try again pass the bill, which the PUC needs to issue its final order. The PUC's proposed order offers the first hint of financial relief for hundreds of alternative energy producers, known as ''qualified facilities" in the energy industry, who have been paid just pennies on the dollar by cash- strapped Pacific Gas & Electric and Southern California Edison. Lack of payments has caused many alternative generators to shutter their operations. The PUC's proposal, which will be considered at the commission's meeting Tuesday, offers generators a choice of agreeing to a five-year contract at $79 per megawatt or a 10-year deal at $69 per megawatt, Davis said. The going rate now is about $150 a megawatt hour. The order does not address money already owed to the more than 600 alternative energy producers. Under the order, utilities would have to pay any generator who signed the new contracts within two weeks. But PG&E said it might not be able to afford do that. Operators of co-generation facilities say the contracts contemplated by the PUC don't cover their cost of producing energy because the sale price no longer would be pegged to the the price of natural gas. In a significant court decision affecting generators, one geothermal energy supplier in Imperial County won a lawsuit yesterday against Edison allowing the company to escape a contract requiring it to sell electricity to the utility. A superior court judge said CalEnergy, operator of the geothermal plant, could suspend deliveries to Edison and sell the 268 megawatt hours it generated on the open market. CalEnergy is owed $75 million by the utility. The court victory may ease mounting pressure from some qualified facilities, including CalEnergy, to drive one or both of the utilities into involuntary bankruptcy. The Assembly and Senate, meanwhile, rushed through a series of bills aimed at increasing energy conservation, and rushing the building of new power plants. Most significant for bigger residential and commercial utility customers is a measure passed by the Assembly to allow energy customers to buy power directly from generators. That right was eliminated in January when the state began buying power for the cash-strapped utilities. The bill approved unanimously yesterday would impose a yet to be determined exit fee on customers who leave the power grid to help cover the state's financial exposure. Tell Us What You Think Can you save 20 percent on your energy use? Gov. Gray Davis' administration is offering rebates for Californians who save on power starting in June, and if you've got a strategy for conserving, The Chronicle wants to hear it. We'll be writing about the hardest-working energy savers in a future story. To get involved, write to the Energy Desk, San Francisco Chronicle, 901 Mission St., San Francisco, CA 94103; or e-mail energysaver@sfchronicle.com. E-mail the reporters at glucas@sfchronicle.com and bsalladay@sfchronicle.com. ,2001 San Francisco Chronicle ? Page?A - 14 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------- State's bill for energy could double this year Posted at 9:34 p.m. PST Thursday, March 22, 2001 BY STEVE JOHNSON AND JOHN Warning that California is imperiled by the prices it is paying for electricity, a report Thursday said the state's annual power tab could wind up being 10 times what it was two years ago. At the current rate of spending, the report estimated that the total electricity bill in California this year could hit $70 billion, which is more than twice what it was last year and about 10 times what was paid in 1999 and 1998. ``The California electricity market has gone from being `dysfunctional' to precipitating a crisis,'' according to the report from the Independent System Operator. It added that the price being charged ``threatens any semblance of just and reasonable consumer rates, the financial viability of California's investor-owned utilities, the financial stability of California, of its neighboring states and of the nation.'' While power suppliers denied any wrongdoing, the report said the state appears to have been hit with ``excess'' charges totaling $6.87 billion since May, based on an assessment of the typical operating costs of power plant owners. Out of that total, $6.2 billion appeared to be excessive charges during times when power was not in particularly short supply, the agency said. The cost of power has become a growing concern now that the state has stepped in to buy it on behalf of Pacific Gas & Electric Co. and Southern California Edison, which claim to be so strapped for cash that they are on the verge of bankruptcy. In making public the report, which was sent to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, officials at the Independent System Operator were careful not to accuse any power companies of price gouging. While the prices appeared to be unreasonable, they said, the state needs to learn more about the specific operating costs of power plant operators before they could determine whether California was cheated. The officials said they were considering asking the federal agency, which oversees power wholesalers, to order the suppliers to make refunds. In the past two weeks, the federal agency has warned a number of suppliers that they may have to refund $135 million in apparent overcharges during January and February. But many experts question whether the federal agency is serious about demanding such refunds, so California officials also are reviewing the possibility of suing the suppliers or seeking criminal charges against some of them. ``We're working very closely with a number of agencies to review the information we currently have to determine what remedies may be available,'' said Charles Robinson, the Independent System Operator's general counsel. The report's suspicions were partly bolstered by another study made public Thursday by the state auditor. It said California's market structure encouraged bidding gamesmanship by both utilities and power sellers ``in an effort to manipulate wholesale prices to their advantage.'' But it stopped short of accusing power generators of profiting illegally. ``There's clearly some evidence of market abuse,'' said state Auditor Elaine Howle. Even so, she added, ``that's not to say it's anything illegal. We hired consultants, they looked at some of the bidding, and they weren't comfortable going that far.'' Although no power companies were named in either report, officials with several suppliers insisted they have done nothing wrong. ``We've conducted our business legally and ethically,'' said Richard Wheatley, spokesman for Reliant Energy, which runs five major California power plants. ``The ISO report appears to be nothing more than just another attempt to put blame at someone else's doorstep, when there's been very little action out of Sacramento to resolve the problems in the California marketplace.'' Duke Energy spokesman Jeremy Dreier said the company, which runs plants in Moss Landing and Morro Bay, sold most of its power last year and this year in relatively low-cost, long-term contracts, and was among the first to offer such deals to the state. He added that Duke increased production from its aging plants to meet surging demand. ``The fact that we were among the first to bring long-term contracts to the table speaks volumes about how we're trying to serve this market,'' Dreier said. John Sousa of Dynegy Inc., which co-owns three major California plants, added that ``given the market conditions, the rates we charged were just and reasonable.'' ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------- Plan for alternate power plants stalls Posted at 10:03 p.m. PST Thursday, March 22, 2001 BY DION NISSENBAUM AND JENNIFER BJORHUS Mercury News SACRAMENTO -- The state's prospects for plugging a critical electricity gap dimmed Thursday when the state Assembly rejected a rescue plan for alternative power companies and a state judge ruled that one such firm could stop selling energy in California. Both actions threaten the plan Gov. Gray Davis announced just Tuesday to keep these companies running and stave off more blackouts. With the state's troubled utilities failing to pay for their electricity, many alternative energy plants have been shutting down. The dual blows came on a day when tempers flared in the Capitol as lawmakers jarred by back-to-back blackouts launched bipartisan attacks on Pacific Gas & Electric Co. and Southern California Edison, which aren't paying wind, solar, biomass, geothermal and small gas-fired plants for their electricity. After Republicans shot down the measure meant to keep alternative energy companies in business, Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg, D-Van Nuys, warned that the restless companies might act on their threat to force the utilities into bankruptcy. ``They said it, and I understood them to mean it,'' he said. The failure overshadowed a burst of action in Sacramento where lawmakers approved a host of other measures. The Senate approved two key bills: one that would spend more than $1 billion to encourage Californians to conserve energy and one that would make it easier to build power plants. The Assembly approved 14 incremental bills. Six votes short But the Assembly fell six votes short of passing a hastily prepared bill meant to help prop up the nearly 700 alternative energy companies, many of which are now idle. Those closings sapped California of energy this week and helped cause two days of rolling blackouts -- the first since January. In response, Davis and lawmakers cobbled together a plan to set new, lower rates for alternative power and to fine the utilities if they refuse to pay these companies, which supply up to a third of the state's power. But Republicans refused to back the measure and said it contained too many complex parts that needed more time to analyze. ``Everyone in this room knows that this piece of legislation has not had a good look,'' said Assemblyman George Runner, R-Lancaster. Assemblyman Fred Keeley, D-Santa Cruz, castigated the Republicans and implored them to accept an imperfect solution. ``Ladies and gentlemen: Welcome to the NFL,'' he said. ``Welcome to the world where large, complex issues don't have a simple solution.'' Approval is needed before state regulators at the Public Utilities Commission can vote on the fine points of the plan. That was supposed to happen Tuesday. Much of the criticism focused on concerns raised by power plants that use natural gas to produce energy. Administrators from those plants said the Davis price caps would make it impossible for them to break even. The derailment came hours after the measure narrowly won approval in the state Senate. Hertzberg plans to search for a compromise today and canceled plans for the Assembly's annual trip to Washington. Thursday's actions were highlighted by angry attacks on the utilities by frustrated lawmakers. ``I hope they do go bankrupt,'' shouted Senate President pro tem John Burton, D-San Francisco, during a debate on the energy crisis. ``Let them go belly up. I don't care any more.'' Legal decision adds twist The legislative failure was compounded by a legal decision in Southern California that further complicated the picture. A Superior Court judge in Imperial County cleared the way for CalEnergy Operating Corp. to break its contract with Edison and sell its 268 megawatts of power on the open market. The judge concluded that Edison had breached its contract by failing to pay CalEnergy since November. That ruling could pave the way for hundreds of others to follow suit and drain off power California needs to prevent blackouts. ``It's not good,'' said V. John White, director of the Center for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Technologies. ``This is potentially going to change the dynamics of the situation, and probably not for the better.'' Jan Smutny-Jones, executive director of the Independent Energy Producers Association, said it was unclear whether other companies would sue. ``I think this is a very significant development,'' he said. ``We're sort of at a period where the industry's reaching the end of the rope.'' The ruling did have one silver lining: CalEnergy Chairman David Sokol said his company and seven others had planned to force Edison into bankruptcy if they lost in court. But he also warned, ``You stick a sharp stick in enough people's eyes, and they get pretty tired of it.'' The situation with generators supplying PG&E isn't as dire since the company has been making partial payments. Kent Burton, senior vice president for Covanta Energy Corp. in New Jersey, said, ``They've tried to be responsive.'' Mercury News Staff Writer Mark Gladstone contributed to this report. Contact Dion Nissenbaum at dnissenbaum@sjmercury.com or (916) 441-4603 or Jennifer Bjorhus at jbjorhus@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5660.
