From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: ena.employees@enron.com
Date: Wed, 20 Dec 2000 18:02:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re-Alignment
Thanks to all of you, Enron North America has had an outstanding year in 2000. Some of the more notable accomplishments include: a) 100% plus increase in EBIT from 1999 actuals to 2000 forecast; b) significant rationalization of the balance sheet including the sale of the (i) Wind River/Powder River gathering assets, (ii) East Coast Power generating assets, (iii) HPL and (iv) five of the six Eastern Peakers; c) ENA is the leading energy merchant by a factor of two; d) physical electricity volume grew by 34% YTD 1999 to YTD 2000 forecast; e) natural gas volumes grew by 82% YTD 1999 to YTD 2000 forecast; f) 500% growth in daily transactions from November 1999 to November 2000 due to the highly successful Enron OnLine distribution channel; and g) ENA reaching its 25% ROCE target. These are truly outstanding accomplishments and our expectations for growth and opportunity in Enron North America for 2001 are consistent with that success. In order to reach these goals, we felt it necessary to re-align a number of our organizations. A number of these changes are completed. The goals of such re-alignment include: a) increase overall productivity with the goal to ensure that every employee is in a position to contribute regardless of skill set; b) increase overall market coverage, deal flow and information generation with the goal to increase bid/offer income, increase the velocity of deal flow, improve customer coverage and promote quality information transfer to our trading organization; c) increase deal quality and earnings quality with the goal to (i) allocate our resources towards the best transactions and (ii) significantly increase our &mid-market8 originated transactions in our portfolio; d) promote real time decision making and a closer tie between our trading and origination (mid-market and structured) organizations in order to better align those functions to reduce the amount of un-productive internal focus; e) increase the overall velocity of the capital being utilized consistent with our goal of a 25% plus return on capital employed; and f) identify and recognize a host of new leaders in the organization that are critical to meeting our goals next year. With these objectives in mind, patterned after the successful business models in Calgary and Portland, effective immediately the following changes are being implemented: a) East Power ) a single East Power Team incorporating trading, mid-market and origination will be formed under the co-leadership of Kevin Presto and Janet Dietrich who will report to the Enron Americas - Office of the Chairman (EA OOC). This team will have one income statement, one book and a joint accountability. However, a clear delineation of responsibilities inside these teams will continue to exist in which the trading organization will manage the risk, income statement and product development aspects of the partnership. The originators will have the primary responsibility to generate origination income, provide coverage, deal flow, lead strategy formulation, provide information and generate strategic positions. Overall, the team will be rewarded based upon increasing the value of the book, meeting coverage/deal flow targets and meeting its strategic/growth goals in the Eastern power markets. The team will be responsible for covering the IOU,s, muni,s/co-ops, industrials and IPP,s and will utilize all ENA,s product capabilities including the power commodity, assets and capital. The team will further be broken down into several key strategic regions and business units including: (i) ERCOT ) managed by Doug Gilbert Smith and Bruce Sukaly; (ii) NE ) managed by Dana Davis and Jeff Ader; (iii) Midwest ) managed by Fletch Sturm and Ed Baughman; (iv) SE ) managed by Rogers Herndon and Ozzie Pagan; (v) East Power Development ) managed by Ben Jacoby; (vi) East Power Structuring - managed by Bernie Aucoin; and (vii) East Power Fundamentals and the &Genco8 ) managed by Lloyd Will b) West Power ) there will be no changes to the Portland office which is managed by Tim Belden and Chris Calger . Both Tim and Chris will continue to report to the EA OOC. c) Canada and Mexico ) there will be no changes to the Canadian or Mexican offices which are managed by Rob Milnthorp and Max Yzaguirre respectively. Both Rob and Max will continue to report to the EA OOC. d) U.S. Natural Gas ) there are several changes anticipated in this business consistent with the goals and objectives described above. The changes primarily affect the East, Central, West and Texas gas regions. Each region will consist of a single gas team incorporating trading, mid-market and origination. Each team will have one income statement, one book and a joint accountability. However, a clear delineation of responsibilities inside these teams will continue to exist in which the trading organization will manage the risk, income statement and product development aspects of the partnership. The originators will have the primary responsibility to generate origination income, provide coverage, deal flow, lead strategy formulation, provide information and generate strategic positions. Overall, the team will be rewarded based upon increasing the value of the book, meeting coverage/deal flow targets and meeting its strategic/growth goals in the Eastern, Western, Central and Texas gas markets. The team will be responsible for covering the LDC,s, muni,s/co-ops, industrials, IOU,s, IPP,s and the producers. There will be an increasing focus on the upstream side of the business including the producers, transporters and storage providers in addition to market area opportunities. The team will utilize all of ENA,s product capabilities including the gas commodity, assets and capital. Each of these groups will report directly to the EA OOC; East Gas ) a single East Gas Team incorporating trading, mid-market and origination will be formed under the co-leadership of Scott Neal and Frank Vickers who will be returning from Portland to join this team. West Gas ) in a similar manner, a West Gas Team will be formed co-managed by Phillip Allen and Barry Tycholiz, who will be joining us in Houston from the Canadian team. The Denver office under Mark Whitt will be integrated under this team. Central Gas ) in a similar manner, a Central Gas Team will be formed co-managed by Hunter Shively and Laura Luce. The Chicago office will be integrated into this team. Texas Gas ) the Texas Gas Team will be managed by Tom Martin. This team will continue to manage the gas trading business around HPL until the pending sale is concluded in Q2 2001. After the sale of HPL, this team will build a Texas gas business without ownership of the HPL assets. Financial ) this group will continue to be managed by John Arnold with no significant changes. Derivatives ) this group, lead by Fred Lagrasta, will offer derivative and financial mid-market products and services to the natural gas market specifically targeting CFO,s and treasury departments. Fred will continue to maintain certain existing mid-market accounts with a number of producer and industrial accounts where relationships are well formed. Otherwise, mid-market coverage will gravitate to the regions. The New York office gas marketing efforts will continue to be managed by Fred. Upstream Products ) this group, lead by Jean Mrha, will develop several distinct product offerings for the upstream segment of the gas market. This group will develop and market the product in conjunction with the regions. This is consistent with our desire to have a broader product offering and greater market penetration in the upstream segment. These products include producer outsourcing, similar to our successful Petro-Canada and Suncor relationships in Canada, physical storage re-engineering, compressor services, wellhead liquidity products and offshore asset and capital products. In addition, Jean will manage our Bridgeline joint venture with Texaco. Gas Structuring ) this group will be lead by Ed McMichael, reporting to Frank Vickers, will provide structuring and deal support to all the gas teams. Gas Fundamentals ) this group will be lead by Chris Gaskill, reporting to Hunter Shively, will provide fundamentals to all the gas teams. Julie Gomez will continue to support the gas floor through several identified projects including long-term supply/demand analysis and, natural gas transportation capacity trading opportunities. There is an expectation of some customer overlap between the gas and power groups; for example, the combination utilities and the IPP,s. The teams will coordinate with regard to the combination utilities like Con. Edison or PG&E. With regard to the IPP,s, to the extent that the product offering involves an underlying power position, the power teams will manage. We have asked Janet Dietrich to coordinate such overlaps between the two organizations in Houston. e) Technical/Restructuring - In the effort to consolidate and centralize our technical resources (engineering, development, operations, pipeline) to ensure that this skill base is available to all ENA groups and utilized productively across the organization, Brian Redmond will form and manage the Technical Services Group. This group will manage ENA,s technical risks and will provide, on a cost basis, technical services for the entire ENA organization. This group will manage the interface with EE&CC and OEC. In addition, the Restructuring Group, currently managed by Dick Lydecker, will report to Brian Redmond. This group is currently monetizing a large portion of the merchant investment portfolio given our current strategies. This group will have continuing responsibility to manage troubled commodity and capital transactions that need considerable time and attention to manage risk and monetize. In addition to these responsibilities, Brian will manage the pending sale and transition of the HPL asset over the next couple quarters as regulatory and securities approvals are obtained in order to complete the sale. Brian will report to the EA OOC. f) Principal Investing ) with the departure of Jeff Donahue to new opportunities in EBS, ENA,s venture capital function will be managed by Michael L. Miller. This group makes small investments in distributed generation, power quality and technology companies that can benefit from Enron,s distribution channels and expertise. Michael will report to the EA OOC. g) Corporate Development ) Tim Detmering will assume the corporate development responsibilities for ENA as Jeff transitions to his new role and will report to the EA OOC. h) Generation Investments ) there will be no changes to this group managed by Dave Duran. Dave will continue to report to the EA OOC. i) Energy Capital Resources ) there will be no changes to this group currently lead by C. John Thompson and Scott Josey. John and Scott will continue to report to the EA OOC. As a final note in the interest of keeping things simple, Enron Americas will have two operating divisions - Enron North America and Enron South America. As a result, we will continue to conduct business under these two operating companies; therefore, eliminating the need to change legal entities et al. If you are currently a commercial employee of ENA or ESA you will continue to conduct business in that company. We look forward to another exciting year in the North American energy market. This is certainly a company unrivaled in the marketplace with the most talented employees. The opportunities are endless. We wish you and your family a very happy and safe holiday season.
