From: lysa.akin@enron.com
To: issuealert@scientech.com
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2001 06:15:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: AES Completes Acquisition of IPALCO
Mary Hain has resigned her position with Enron. Please remove her from all your mail lists. Thank you. Lysa Akin Gov't Affairs - Sr. Admin. Ass't. Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. From: "SCIENTECH IssueAlert" <IssueAlert@scientech.com> 03/28/2001 02:59 AM To: cc: Subject: AES Completes Acquisition of IPALCO Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com Learn more about SCIENTECH'S newest InfoGrid: Venture Capital Firms, Emerging Technology Companies and Services in the Electric Industry. Get the latest news and information available today regarding technologies in distributed generation, fuel cell, solar, wind and energy information services. Over 110 companies and over 42 investors are featured in this intelligence product. Download a sample at www.ConsultRCI.com or contact Chris Vigil at (505) 244-7605 for more information. [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 28, 2001 AES Completes Acquisition of IPALCO by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) announced that it has completed its acquisition of IPALCO Enterprises, the Indianapolis, Ind.-based utility with 3,000 MW of generation and 433,000 customers in and around Indianapolis. IPALCO has now become a wholly owned subsidiary of AES through an exchange of shares in which each outstanding share of IPALCO common stock will be exchanged for 0.463 shares of AES common stock. IPALCO common stock was suspended from trading at the close of the market on March 27. Analysis: The purchase of IPALCO, an established and respected utility in the Midwest, will help AES to continue to secure its foothold in this region and further the company's aggressive expansion efforts along the generation side of its business. AES already owns CILCORP, an energy services company whose largest subsidiary, CILCO, serves portions of Illinois and Missouri. (Note that pursuant to an SEC order, AES will restructure and/or sell its ownership interests in CILCORP within two years in order to retain its status as an exempt holding company under PUHCA). Thus, through the purchase of IPALCO, AES is strengthening a presence in the Midwest that it already has established. In addition, from this purchase we now know that AES, along with being a global player, intends to remain dominant throughout the United States as well. Further, the acquisition represents a rather bright development for AES, considering that the company has recently encountered some ongoing challenges related to its operations in California. First, let's examine the value of AES' acquisition of IPALCO. Certainly, the 3,000 MW of generation that AES gained in the deal must have been the primary draw, but from comments made by Dennis Bakke, AES president and CEO, the company apparently also wants to become a marketing presence in Indiana (and the Midwest as a whole). IPALCO gains in the deal by now being under the aggressive management of AES; the subsidiaries under IPALCO such as Indianapolis Power & Light will now stand a much better chance for global development and expansion. As with other generation acquisitions that AES has made, the company secures a decided edge over competitors that may have strong marketing presence but fewer hard assets. With its strong generation portfolio, to which the IPALCO purchase only adds, AES can further guarantee to potential customers a reliable power supply. AES is one of the largest generation companies in the world, having reached this level through a series of strategic acquisitions. The company's generating assets include interests in 134 facilities totaling over 48 gigawatts of capacity. By comparison, Calpine has approximately 36,700 MW, Dynegy has a net ownership of 12,497 MW, and Reliant has about 27,000 MW. In addition, AES' electricity distribution network has over 920,000 km of conductor and associated rights of way, and sells over 126,000 GWh per year to over 17 million end-user customers. AES has surpassed many of its power supply competitors by maintaining an aggressive growth strategy over the past year. Recent milestones for the company are too many to list here. However, highlights include acquiring a controlling interest in Electricidad de Caracas; acquiring 100-percent interest in Tractebel Power; purchasing 70-percent interest in the Mohave Generating Station in Laughlin, Nev.; and purchasing GeoUtilities, Inc., an Internet-based superstore for energy and telecom services. Just since the start of 2001, AES entered into an agreement to purchase all of the energy assets of Thermo Ecotec Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Thermo Electron Corporation of Waltham, Mass., for $195 million, and announced new generation development projects in Texas and California. AES also has continued its international expansion with an acquisition of a 140-MW oil-fired co-generation facility in Italy, the acquisition of a 290-MW barge-mounted natural-gas fired generating business in Nigeria, and the purchase of additional ownership interest in a 1,000-MW hydro plant in Argentina. As I've said in the past, AES is a company to watch. Even when acquisitions that AES is making seem rather small, they must be taken within the context of the portfolio that AES is building. Whether it's generation, retail marketing, telecom, or selling electricity over the Internet, AES has a foothold in many different areas. AES is a major player that can offer the full package to a customer, which may in the end be its strongest advantage. The company maintains that it is engaged in three lines of businesses, which are all equally important to its strategy: power generation, network delivery services and retail energy marketing. However, it is important to recognize that AES continues to build a huge generation arsenal and now has the capability to market its commodity products through its marketing subsidiaries. However, although AES has had a fairly successful year, the company has hit some bumps and made some questionable decisions along the way, all of which were related to the California market. AES has established several tolling agreements with Williams Corp. for the power plants that AES owns in California. Under the tolling agreements, AES essentially rents its plants to Williams so that Williams can generate fuel to electricity, which it then can sell on the wholesale market. In other words, Williams had a contract to market all of the power generated by AES' California plants. In hindsight, AES may regret the questionable decision to enter into the tolling agreements with Williams in California. Although AES did well last year, with net income rising 181 percent to $641 million, the company reportedly lost $11 million on the lucrative California market. Meanwhile, Williams (NYSE: WMB) reported unaudited 2000 income from continuing operations of $873.2 million, or $1.95 per share on a diluted basis, versus $178 million, or 40 cents per share on a restated basis, for 1999. AES also took a hit when it had to pay air pollution fines and buy power on the wholesale market to meet its obligations to Williams when it was forced to shut some plants down. Further, AES (along with other companies) continues to fall under the intense scrutiny of FERC for pricing that the commission has deemed "unjust and unreasonable" for power generated at AES-owned plants. FERC's investigation centers on the unavailability of certain so-called "must run" generating plants in the Los Angeles area that are owned by AES Southland, a subsidiary of AES. A "must run" plant is a generating facility that the California ISO can call upon to provide energy and ancillary service essential to the reliability of the California transmission network. Several weeks ago, FERC announced that a preliminary investigation raised serious questions about the actions of Williams Energy Marketing and Trading and AES. On March 14, FERC gave the two companies 20 days to explain why they should not refund $10.86 million to California utilities. Further, FERC said that "Williams had a financial incentive to prolong any outages" of two AES-owned plants last April and May. "Williams received more revenues as a result of the respective outages," the commission said. AES responded to the charges by saying that the plants were taken off line for repairs and that it did not share in market revenues from sales of power from the plants. According to a report in The Washington Post, AES Pacific Group vice president Stu Ryan said that as long as the plants are in operating condition, Williams decides when they will run and what it will charge for their power. As a result of the unavailability of the two "must run" AES plants, the state's ISO had to obtain power from other plants, also owned by AES, where the power was much more expensive and the companies made much larger profits. The commission said its investigation indicated that AES and Williams refused to make the two "must run" plants available "for reasons that were not directly related to the necessary and timely maintenance" of the plant. Many power supply companies that were active in the California wholesale market now are retreating due to the volatility and uncertainty of the state's market. Although it remains unclear how AES will continue to participate in the California market, it may be a smart move for the company to focus on expanding operations in other regions of the United States (such as the Midwest). Yet, how AES' acquisition of IPALCO will impact the company's bottom line remains to be seen. Standard & Poor's (S&P) is reserving its assessment of the partnership for the time being, and is keeping AES on CreditWatch. AES' double-'B' corporate credit, single-'B'-plus rating on subordinated debt, and single-'B' rating on the company's trust preferred securities remain intact pending further review and information about the acquisition of IPALCO. Also, S?lowered its corporate credit ratings on IPALCO to triple-'B' from single-'A'-plus, and IPALCO's subsidiary, Indianapolis Power & Light Co. (IPL), to triple-'B' from double-'A'-minus, and revised the CreditWatch implications to positive from negative. S?expects to address the CreditWatch status in the next two weeks. On March 27, AES shares closed at about $47.75. As of mid-morning on March 28, AES shares were priced at about $50.00. Over the last few days, AES shares have increased by about 5 percent and have closely tracked the Dow Jones Utility Average. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
