From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2001 03:52:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Enron Stock Drops Amid Concerns About Broadband Business, General
 Market Trends
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com [IMAGE] Rapidpartsmart is the newest, most powerful online parts search engine in the power industry. Rapidpartsmart is the complete source to locate, buy and sell engineered parts worldwide. Rapidpartsmart integrates over 5 million supply items into asset management and work management systems to ensure that you know all supply sources, all the time. Rapidpartsmart increases supply options, reduces outage risks and cuts inventory investment. Contact John Kelly at (727) 669-3006 for more information or go to www.rapidpartsmart.com [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 23, 2001 Enron Stock Drops Amid Concerns About Broadband Business, General Market Trends by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis [News item from Reuters] Shares of electricity and natural-gas marketing giant Enron Corp. (NYSE: ENE) slid further on Thursday (March 22) amid broader weakness in energy stocks, despite a reassurance from the company that it would hit its previously stated target earnings for this year. Enron was off $3.34, or 6 percent, at $52.55 on March 22, after falling 8 percent on March 21. So far this year, Enron's stock is down about 37 percent, versus a 16-percent decline for Standard & Poor's utilities index and a 20-percent drop for the Dow Jones industrial average. Analysis: Over the last several weeks, a growing number of smaller, emerging energy companies have felt the impact from the nation's struggling economy and the likelihood of an impending recession. Just recently, start-up companies such as Silicon Energy and Hydrogen Burner Technology have withdrawn their IPO plans, citing an anemic stock market and the lack of positive cash flow. A look across the stock market can send shivers down the spines of most energy company CEOs, as the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled below the 9,200 point for the first time in two years, and the Nasdaq composite remains 64 percent off of its March 10, 2000, high of 5,048, putting the economy in bear market territory. However, while the stocks and public offerings of smaller energy companies may crash and burn, the giant energy company that is Enron Corp. typically has seemed immune from the high and low tides of the U.S. economy. Over the course of 2000, Enron shares returned 89 percent and traded at roughly 55 times trailing earnings, reportedly more than 2.5 times the multiple of its some of its main competitors or the S?500. Nevertheless, Enron's winning streak in the stock market may be eroding, as the waves that are crashing around many other energy companies may also be dragging Enron into the same whirlpool. For perspective, Enron's closest competitors across its various business lines, Williams and Dynegy, also appear to be taking the hit from the bear market. Williams (NYSE: WMB) saw its stock decline $3.34, or 8 percent, to $38.10 on March 22. Dynegy (NYSE: DYN) saw its stock drop $2.26, or 5 percent, to $44.50. Of course, of the three companies, Enron wields the highest P/E ratio at 49.99 and largest market capitalization at $41.7 billion. By comparison, Williams has a P/E ratio of 21.53 and market capitalization of $20 billion, while Dynegy has a P/E ratio of 31.98 and market capitalization of $15.2 billion. Analysts that keep a close eye on Enron's stock say the sudden decline is not a reflection of any new business developments at the company, but rather a market that is struggling in general, and a growing disenchantment among investors in technology and telecommunications in particular. This may be having a unique impact on Enron as the company attributed much of its strong stock performance over the last year to its growing expansion into the telecommunications / broadband market. Just as the company has achieved unparalleled success in electricity and natural-gas trading, for the last year Enron has been developing a high-speed broadband communications network to support its planned move into bandwidth trading and marketing. Enron projects a $450 billion worldwide market for communications bandwidth trading and services by 2005, and the valuation of its own broadband business at $40 a share, or $35 billion. The company plans to trade excess bandwidth capacity, and in order to do so is constructing its own network, which costs a lot of money. Enron has acknowledged that it intends to sell between $2 billion and $4 billion in assets over the next 12 months in order to reduce debt and support the new business in broadband (among other businesses in pulp and paper, data storage and advertising). Thus, much is riding on the anticipated success of the broadband business, and Enron's role in it. Up to this point, confidence in both the industry and the company have run high. Some analysts have reported that interest in Enron's expansion into this area, validated by investor interest in new technologies in general, drove an 87-percent rise in the company's share price last year. Yet, once again, the tide may be turning. Investors no longer seem to be as enthralled by emerging technologies that have not resulted in bottom-line profits, much as the year before e-commerce stocks also found that their "day in the sun" ended rather abruptly. And, although nearly every other Enron line of business has turned to gold, its broadband business has remained immature. In fact, for year-end 2000, Enron Broadband Services reported a $60 million IBIT loss, reflecting startup costs to build the new business. The company seems to have anticipated the slow growth of its broadband business. In fact, Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling did not appear concerned over the loss and said that it took between five and six years for the company's natural-gas business to develop standardized contracts and increase liquidity. Skilling has said that these numbers do not dilute his belief that bandwidth trading will soon become a strong performer for the company. While Skilling remains optimistic about the potential of the broadband business, investors may not be as patient. (Note that while Enron's broadband business took a loss for 2000, the company as a whole reported a 25-percent increase in earnings per diluted share to $1.47 and a 32-percent increase in net income to $1.3 billion). In late January Enron had increased its earnings target for 2001 to between $1.70 and $1.75 per share. In response to the sudden drop in stock price and speculation that its broadband business would receive new pressure to become profitable, Enron issued a brief statement reiterating that it "remains very comfortable" with the 2001 earnings estimate. An Enron spokesperson also made references to "information in the market that is inaccurate," suggesting that any speculation about problems in its broadband business were unfounded, including potential layoffs at the broadband unit. According to a report on CBS.MarketWatch.com, investors polled by First Call / Thompson Financial are still expecting Enron to turn in earnings in a range of $1.67 to $1.80 for 2001. Nevertheless, despite Enron's reassurances that it remains on track to meet its earnings estimate, the company's stock continued to drop. As noted, investors began to put downward pressure on the stock, pushing it to $52.50 (as of March 22), below its 52-week low of $55 and far below its 52-week high of $90.56. Some of the decline may be attributed to the fact that many investors remain unclear about what it is that Enron does, exactly. According to a March 5 article in Fortune magazine entitled "Is Enron Overpriced?", some Wall Streeters are skeptical about how the company makes its money, and the lack of clarity has often raised a red flag about Enron's pricey stock. The skepticism did not seem to steal any of Enron's thunder in a bull market, but that could all change quickly in a bear market. Enron may in fact exacerbate Wall Street's distrust in its business model by not fully disclosing its financial records for what it deems "competitive reasons." The Fortune report, which was published before Enron's stock began to decline, also indicated that investors are concerned about Enron's debt. Although the company continues to promise a reduction in its debt load, Enron carried a net $13 billion debt at the end of September 2000. Again, although investors may have been able to look the other way from Enron's debt during a strong economy, it appears that investors will use a fine-tooth comb to examine the company's financial records during the increasingly unstable economy. Moreover, in addition to a possible impatience with the growth of technology and telecommunications stocks, investors may also be concerned that a global economic slowdown could reduce demand for energy as a whole, resulting in lower commodity prices. Drops in the stocks of Dynegy and Williams possibly validate this theory. Enron was quick to quell rumors that its stock began to fall as a result of problems with its broadband unit. Looking at the big picture, it appears reasonable that the broadband business on its own has not caused the drop in Enron's stock. Rather, Enron shares have mostly likely fallen as a result of several factors. Yes, investors appear to now be less likely to support new technologies and telecommunications businesses that have not proven to be presently profitable. In addition, Enron is in many ways an enigma. In an unstable economy, the uncertainty surrounding Enron's business could prompt an unprecedented hesitation about the company's business model. And, lastly, Enron is not alone among energy stocks (and stocks in general) that are weathering the fallout of the stock market. On the bright side, Enron still remains a very puissant company, despite the sudden drop in its stock price. Enron's P/E ratio of 49.99 is still quite strong when compared against other energy companies. In addition, Enron is a company full of surprises, and it is doubtful that any temporary drop in its stock price will keep the company down for long. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
