From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.houston@enron.com
Date: Sun, 1 Jul 2001 14:11:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Enron in Action 07.02.01
Catch the Wave! Join the Enron/MDA Beach Bowl!! Help us "strike a blow" against ALS at the 3rd annual Enron/MDA Beach Bowl! This year's event will be held on July 14th at Palace Lanes in Bellaire. Come have a great time while raising money for ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease) research. It doesn't matter if you bowl a 50 or a 300, as long as you have fun! Call Lindsay Meade at ext. 34551 or Geriann Warner at ext. 35036 for more information! Make a donation to the Peru Earthquake Relief Fund! Peru is beginning reconstruction after a powerful earthquake devastated the southern region of the Andean highlands last Saturday. The 8.1-magnitude earthquake, that has been recently upgraded to the "great" quake category - the most powerful according to the U.S. Geological Survey- triggered a tsunami that crashed into the seaport town of Camana destroying more houses and raising the death toll. Up to now, the earthquake has left over 100 people dead, 1,374 injured and 47,696 homeless. The people who lost their homes have been forced to sleep on the ground in Peru's frigid Andes highlands, tents provided by the army and by some help organizations does not provide sufficient issulation against winter temperatures in that region. Help is urgently needed. If you would like to contribute to this cause please send your donations to: American Red Cross 2700 Southwest Freeway Houston TX 77098 (In the memo line of your check please write: Earthquake-Peru, to ensure funds are canalized correctly) In order to get Enron to match your donations dollar for dollar please go to http://home.enron.com/cr/ and click on Gifts, Grants and Giving. Once there, click the Matching Gifts link and you will be able print the Matching Gift form. If you have any qeustions regarding the Matching Gift program please email comunity-relations@enron.com. Credit Union Offers Flood Relief Loans EFCU is offering two special Flood Relief Loans to Enron employees and their families who have been affected by the flooding. o Signature Loans* at a 5.00% Fixed APR, single pay plan, and $10,000 maximum. o Auto Loans** are available at 6.49% Fixed APR on all conventional loan terms, with a 90-Day No Payment Option. Apply on-line, 24 hours a day at enronfcu.com, then select Anytime Loans and the loan type. Please type Flood Relief in the Purpose of Loan Field. Or, call Anytime Loans at 800.235.8763 and reference our Flood Relief Loan. For more information, please e-mail efcu@enron.com or call our Lending Department at x30578. *Must be a Credit Union member to apply. Unpaid loans must pay interest due after 6 months, and renew on monthly payments at the regular lobby rate at time of renewal. **Term will be extended and finance charges will continue to accrue during the 90-day period. Subject to normal underwriting requirements. Auto Balloon Notes and current loans are excluded from this offer. No other discounts apply. EFCU is an Equal Housing Lender & NCUA Insured. Loans will mature on March 1, 2002. Offers end July 15, 2001. Beginner Ballroom Dance Lessons Sponsored by the US Amateur Ballroom Dancers Beginner Ballroom Dance Lessons, opened to the public and taught by qualified instructors, sponsored by the United States Amateur Ballroom Dancers Association (a non-profit organization), in cooperation with the City of Houston Parks & Recreation Department. Classes start on Tuesday, July 3rd from 6:00 - 7:30 pm at the River Oaks Community Center, 3600 Locke Lane (between Weslayan & Buffalo Speedway on Latchmont, one block north of Westheimer). $38.00 for a monthly session (registration first day of class) $30.00 for seniors over 60, and students under 23 Dances will include: Waltz, Foxtrot, Cha-cha, Rumba, Swing and Tango. For further information, call x51529 Southeast Texas AFS - Seeking Host Families for High School Students! Southeast Texas AFS is seeking host families for high school age students for the 2001-2002 school year. Here are brief biographies of 4 students scheduled to arrive in August, 2001 who still need families: http://home.enron.com:84/messaging/jensdenmark.doc http://home.enron.com:84/messaging/philippaustria.doc http://home.enron.com:84/messaging/miadenmark.doc http://home.enron.com:84/messaging/melissacanada.doc Interested? Call Carol Marshall 3-4291 for more information. AFS is an international, voluntary, nongovernmental, non-profit organization that provides intercultural learning opportunities to help people develop the knowledge, skills and understanding needed to create a more just and peaceful world. AFS offers exchanges for students, young adults and teachers in over 50 countries around the world. AFS <http://afsweb.afs.org/homepage.nsf?open> Enron Kids Volunteers Needed The Enron Kids Committee is looking for additional volunteers to help plan for another successful Enron Kids year. We are in the early planning phase for our holiday event. This year's school is Gordon Elementary in the Bellaire area. Ninety-eight percent of Gordon's student population qualifies for free or reduced lunch. To join the planning committee, please contact Lillian Villarreal, via email or phone (xt. 37092), to be added to our distribution list. Meetings are once a month, until we get closer to the December event, when we will meet at least twice a month. The Enron Kids program has consistently been among the top employee participation programs. We look forward to you supporting the children of Gordon Elementary through the Enron Kids program of 2001. ENRON WELLNESS BLOOD DRIVE Two M. D. Anderson Blood Center mobile coaches will be parked on Andrews Street on Thursday, July 12, from 7 a.m. until 4 p.m. for the Enron Wellness Department's 3rd quarter blood drive. If you were unable to make the special blood drive held June 14, here's your chance to donate. Call the Enron Health Center at ext. 3-6100 or mailto:health.center@enron.com to schedule an appointment. Let's continue the spirit of giving! FLOOD RELIEF BLOOD DRIVE RESULTS A total of 79 units of blood were donated during the special blood drive held June 14 in the aftermath of Tropical Storm Allison. Thanks to all the Enron employees and contractors you who gave! Have News to Share? To post news or events in Enron In Action, please e-mail your information to EIA@enron.com no later than 12:00 noon the Thursday prior to the next Monday,s mailing.
