From: sslater@epsa.org
To: bhueter@enron.com, elizabeth.linnell@enron.com, harry.kingerski@enron.com, 
	jmigden@enron.com, jsteffes@enron.com, marchris.robinson@enron.com, 
	mary.hain@enron.com, mona.l.petrochko@enron.com, 
	paul.kaufman@enron.com, rboston@enron.com, rshapiro@enron.com, 
	snord@enron.com, tom.chapman@enron.com
Date: Mon, 2 Apr 2001 03:23:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: NOx SIP Call Implementation - Draft EPSA Letters to MI and NC
MEMORANDUM TO: Environmental Issues Committee State Issues Committee FROM: Frank Ferraro, Environmental Issues Committee Chair Jane Cahill, State Issues Committee Chair Samantha Slater, Manager of State and Regional Affairs DATE: April 2, 2001 RE: NOx SIP Call Implementation - Draft EPSA Letters to Michigan and North Carolina Attached ? Comments Due By Wednesday, April 4th, Close of Business Most of the 19 states subject to the NOx-SIP Call rule have submitted draft or final plans to revise their state implementation plans (SIPs) to meet the rule's emission-reduction requirements. U.S. EPA is in various stages of reviewing and taking action on the plans. It is expected that Northeastern states' plans will generally be acted upon first since they were among the first to be submitted. North Carolina and Michigan are both in the process of finalizing their plans for implementing the NOx SIP-Call rule. Both of their rules, as currently drafted, contain approaches of particular concern to merchant suppliers. Specifically, both feature provisions that could limit significantly the number of allowances available to new generating facilities. EPSA has drafted comments to these states advocating more reasonable approaches, which will be more likely to ensure sufficient allowances to support capacity additions. A copy of the drafts is attached for review. Please provide any comments on the letter to Samantha Slater at (202) 628-8200 or sslater@epsa.org no later than the close of business on Wednesday, April 4th. Please contact Samantha Slater at EPSA for further information. Attachments - EPSA NC letter.doc - EPSA MI letter.doc
