From: houstontexans@newsletter.houstontexans.com
To: texansnews@newsletter.houstontexans.com
Date: Fri, 15 Dec 2000 03:47:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Texans Weekly 12-15
Houston Texans Weekly Update Dec. 15, 2000 OUT AND ABOUT The season's final installment of Houston Texans Monday Night Football is this Monday, Dec. 18, at Jillian's at the Marq?E Entertainment Center. The Buccaneers host the Rams in a rematch of last January's NFC Championship Game. NFL Alumni including Ken Houston, Bubba McDowell and John Shumacher will serve as celebrity waiters from 7-8 p.m. Their tips will go to Caring For Kids, NFL Alumni's charity of choice. In addition, the first 100 guests in the Jillian's video cafe will receive a holiday gift. Those gifts include Jillian's Party Packs, a Marq?E Entertainment Center prize package and Texans footballs autographed by Bob McNair and Charley Casserly. Academy Sports & Outdoors will also give away two grand prizes -- a $500 Academy shopping spree and a set of Wilson golf clubs. Join the Texans in celebrating a great season of food, football and fun this Monday night! TOUCHDOWN CLUB AWARDS DINNER Texans Executive Vice President/General Manager Charley Casserly was the keynote speaker Wednesday night at the Houston Touchdown Club,s 21st Annual High School Awards Dinner at the JW Marriott on Westheimer. The Texans, as well as coaches from 29 college football programs, joined the Touchdown Club in recognizing Houston,s best gridiron performances from the 2000 season. Coach of the Year honors went to The Woodlands, Weldon Willig, who led the Highlanders to an 11-3 mark and their third consecutive District 15-5A championship. Klein Forest RB Yamar Washington took home Offensive Player of the Year honors. Jersey Village LB Shawn Brooks won Defensive Player of the Year honors and Jaxson Appel of Friendswood earned the Iron Man Award for best two-way player in the city. ? Casserly told the gathering of players, coaches and parents that they should all be proud of what they collectively accomplished. But in addressing the players he also did a little coaching himself. &Some of you won't play football again. Some of you will go on to play in college and some of you might play in the NFL,8 Casserly said. &But in each instance your primary goal should be academics. Think about it, if you have a Hall of Fame career in football, your career will be over 15 years from now -- even if you're one of the best players in the history of the game. You have to have something to fall back on. &You need to stay in college all four years and get a degree. If you're good enough to play in the NFL, it will always be there.8 http://www.houstontexans.com/home/general.cfm?cont_id=38318 CASSERLY JOINS IN Earlier in the week, Casserly visited the NFL Films offices in Mount Laurel, N.J. ESPN analyst and former Eagles QB Ron Jaworski was about to tape his weekly Edge NFL Matchup Internet show for NFL.com and asked Casserly to join him. Jaworski talked to Casserly during the episode,s final 10 minutes. You can watch the show in its entirety on HoustonTexans.com. Check out the link on the home page at: http://www.houstontexans.com SHOW YOUR PRIDE From casual Friday to a round at the links, you'll look like a pro in this official Texans team polo from Antigua. This knit polo features a button-down placket, knit collar and cuffs and Texans logo on left chest. http://store.houstontexans.com/cgi-bin/item.cgi?associate=texans&partno=NFL-TE XPOLO-003&error=&stype=polos EARTHLINK EMAIL Wear your Texans pride like a badge of honor; now you can get your own Texans email address (yourname@go.houstontexans.com), courtesy of the Texans and Earthlink. Sign up for the Texans Internet Service today! http://www.earthlink.net/profootball/houstontexans --- You are currently subscribed to texansnews as: GWHALLE@ENRON.COM To unsubscribe send a blank email to leave-texansnews-179392T@newsletter.houstontexans.com
