From: office.chairman@enron.com
To: all.enron-worldwide@enron.com
Date: Mon, 24 Jan 2000 02:06:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Over $50 -- You made it happen!
On Wall Street, people are talking about Enron. At Enron, we're talking about people...our people. You are the driving force behind every success that our company has experienced, including our high-performing stock price, which surpassed the $50 mark only a few days ago. You made it happen! To show our appreciation for your hard work and commitment to Enron,s continued success, eligible regular full-time and regular part-time employees who were on the payroll of a wholly-owned Enron company at Dec. 31, 1999 will receive 50 Enron stock options. A special stock option award certificate and a copy of the stock plan will be sent to you in the next few weeks. About the stock options grant: ? The grant was effective Jan. 18, 2000, therefore, the option grant price is $55.50. ? Options will have a seven-year term, which means you must exercise these options before seven years have passed. ? Options will vest 25 percent on Feb. 28, 2000 and 25 percent each subsequent January 18th thereafter until fully vested, as long as you are an employee of Enron. This means you may exercise 25 percent of these options as early as Feb. 28. ? This grant is made in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Enron Corp. Stock Plans and the award documents, which you will receive in the coming weeks. Due to varying international restrictions and legalities, Enron employees in certain international locations will receive some other form of recognition. Your local management and human resources representative will communicate further details. Visit home.enron.com for additional information. There you can access a list of frequently asked questions regarding stock options. And you can view a special message from Ken Lay. To access the special message, you must have IP-TV and a sound card. If you are not able to view Ken,s message, a transcript is available. If you encounter any technical difficulties, please contact your PC Help Desk. Again, thank you for all you do to make Enron a successful global energy and broadband services company and a great place to work.
