From: rewards_newsletter@sportsline.com
To: bmckay@enron.com
Date: Sat, 20 Oct 2001 01:15:59 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Brad, Get Your Halloween Tricks, Treats and Tips!
Rewards October 18 Issue Number 31 Rewards CBS SportsLine Brad, you have 0 Points! Enjoy Tricks, Treats and Tips from SportsLine Rewards! You'll have a howling good time this Halloween as you redeem for incredible goodies. Also learn the best ways members can earn BIG points FAST! Score Big With TiVo! Ready to save up to $100 and earn 12,000 points! Check out our Special Offer for CBS SportsLine Rewards members who buy a TiVo digital video recorder (DVR) today! With a TiVo DVR you'll score big time: Automatically record your favorite games and shows without the hassles of videotape or timers-all season long! Control your own replays and pause live TV action! Plus gain major yardage with friends, fans & family with TiVo on your team! And hurry! Last chance to win big prizes THIS WEEK! Play TiVo's Football Trivia Challenge before the game ends on 10/31/01! Tricks & Treats! [IMAGE] Redeem for goodies! Win an exciting Prize! Take Advantage of Exclusive Offers! uBid Special Offer! Save up to 70% when you bid on 1,000's of brand name products at uBid. Find computers, digital cameras, DVD's, handhelds, vacations and more! Start saving - Register now! SPECIAL OFFER Planters Play Crunch Time! Kickoff Now VIP Vegas Vacation! Win a VIP Vegas Vacation! OR Win $600 CASH! Click Here! Play Planters Crunch Time: Kickoff Now! SportsLine Rewards Fall Concert Lineup! John S. recently WON a PAIR OF CONCERT TIX valued at $88.00 with a winning bid of ONLY 100 POINTS! We have concert tickets available in over 20 cities. See what concerts we have for you in your city. Click here Football Tix! Pro Football games in a stadium near YOU! Celebrate the Stars and Stripes! FREE Shipping on select USA Flags! Find great deals on all patriotic items including flags, pins, shirts, hats and more! Rewards Exclusive Offer - Get additional savings - $10 OFF your order of $75 or more! Use coupon - CCSAVEOFF11 at checkout. Offers expires 11/7/01. Tips & Tricks! [IMAGE] Learn how you can earn BIG-TIME Rewards Points everyday! These are 'tricks' and 'tips' used by our most dedicated and 'rewarded' members! Earn BIG and have FUN with Fantasy Hockey 2001! Sign up for Fantasy Hockey GOLD - earn 500 Rewards Points! In the 1973 World Series, which Oakland A's pitcher appeared in all seven games? Know it? Well, if you played SportsLine Rewards Daily Trivia, the answer could've been worth up to 510 Rewards Points! Check out today's daily trivia question for your chance to win! Bonus Partner - Earn 10 Rewards Points for checking out NetCigar.com! The Internet's Premier Cigar Shop, NetCigar is your one-stop site for cigars, gifts and accessories. Check 'em out! Ghoolish Goodies! [IMAGE] Amazing Adventure Sweepstakes Live your very own 'Survivor' adventure in the exotic Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico. Only on this one, you can eat ALL you want after hiking, kayaking, exploring, snorkeling - or just simply lying around soaking up the sun. Enter to win today! Hall of Hitters Collectible! Own a Tony Gwynn, Stan 'The Man' Musial and Ted Williams autographed collectible. A Rewards PLUS Exclusive: This impossible-to-find collectible is just the latest of exciting items available EXCLUSIVELY to PLUS members. Enter to win today! Join the most catered-to group of sports enthusiasts on the planet and sign up for SportsLine Rewards PLUS today! 5,000 Bonus Points, HALF OFF redemptions, DOUBLE points per-page-view and more await you as a PLUS member. Join today and enter to win this impossible-to-find collectible! Q?contest with golfing superstar Tiger Woods! Win a Tiger Woods Autographed Photocard and a copy of his new book! Yes, your eyes did not deceive you. Tiger Woods is set to answer YOUR questions. E-mail him today for you chance to win! Next Up: NFL on CBS Experts Contest! If you do not want to receive this newsletter, please click here . You are subscribed as bmckay@enron.com. Copyright 2001 SportsLine.com, Inc. All rights reserved, CBS "eye device" is a registered trademark of CBS Inc. [IMAGE]
