From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.houston@enron.com
Date: Fri, 6 Apr 2001 10:20:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Enron In Action 04.09.01
Swing out with the Sparacino & Company Dancers, rousing performance of SWING KIDS! at the Miller Outdoor Theatre in Hermann Park. Enron Night will be Friday, April 20 at 8:30pm and the performance is free of charge to the public. Although reservations are not required, you may secure a VIP seat by calling 713.520.9070 or e-mailing dancer@neosoft.com. The evening is compliments of Sparacino & Company Dancers. The Enron Volleyball Association will be sponsoring it's annual Spring Fever Volleyball Tournament to be held at Third Coast Volleyball Club. For the first time, we will have a separate bracket for teams of four. Food and drinks will be provided and cash prizes will be awarded to the top three teams from each bracket. For more information, contact Traci Nguyen (713.853.9032). The Lone Star Boxer Rescue Golf Tournament will be held at Cypresswood Golf Course on Wednesday, April 11 beginning with a Shotgun Start at 1pm. All proceeds for the tournament benefit the Lone Star Boxer Rescue group which is an all volunteer organization who works to provide veterinary treatment and find new, permanent homes for unwanted and abandoned Boxer dogs. http://home.enron.com:84/messaging/registration.doc http://home.enron.com:84/messaging/sponsorship.doc Thanks to everyone who participated in our Birdies for Charity fundraiser in the Enron Lobby last Tuesday, April 3rd. Because of your generosity, we were able to raise $500 for Junior Achievement. This amount will be matched by Enron, making our total donation $1,000. The winners of the drawing were George Gilbert-the golf travel bag; Jim Fussell-the Tiger Woods collector golf balls; and Charlie Vetters-the golf shirt and hat. Recycle Your Cell Phone!!! Did you forget to bring in your discarded cell phones last week? If so, please send them to Gavin Dillingham at 3AC1526b by April 30th. By bringing your old phones, bag phones, batteries, adapters, charging units and other cell phone related items, you will support Enron's effort to benefit the Houston Chapter of CARE. CARE is on the world's largest international relief and development organizations with funds going directly to develop sustainable agricultural and economic systems including medical and educational programs in Latin America, Asia, Africa, Europe and the Caribbean. All collected cell phones will be recycled back into use or disposed of in an environmentally responsible manner and you will receive an acknowledgement letter from CARE for this donation. The Manvel Lions Club is hosting its 5th annual Crawfish Cook Off benefiting the Manvel Public Library. The school library in Manvel was closed several months ago due to &environmentally unsafe8 conditions. A temporary library (with rights to operate for 1 year) was opened on March 24, 2001 to provide this public service until a new permanent location can be established. Date: Saturday, April 28, 2001 Time: 12:00 to 5:00 p.m. Place: Sacred Heart Church 6502 County Rd 48 (off Highway 6) Manvel, Texas Activities: In addition to the Crawfish Cook Off, there will be a Raffle, Auction, Music, Games, Food and much, much more. Raffle Items: Huskee 16.5 428 Cut Lawn Mower Poulan 208 Gas Chain Saw Huskee 4HP 228 Cut Big Wheel Push Mower Ryobi Gas Grass Trimmer Electric Leaf Blower Raffle Tickets available for: 1 for $2.00 3 for $5.00 Come join us for a day of music, games, food and a lot of fun that helps benefit the kids of the community. Donations are also needed for the auction. For raffle tickets, donation items or more information, please contact Susan Lopez at 713-853-7947 or 281-331-8207. WalkAmerica, taking place April 29, is the March of Dimes biggest fund-raiser. Money raised from the WalkAmerica supports pioneering research and innovative programs that save babies born prematurely or with birth defects. Since its beginning in 1970, WalkAmerica has raised more than $1 billion to help give babies a fighting chance. Every dollar raised will be matched by Enron. You can read more about the March of Dimes at www.modimes.org. For more information, please contact Kimberly Nelson (ext. 33580) or Gina Taylor (ext. 37681). Support TEAM ENRON and Jeff Skilling by participating in the MS150 from Houston to Austin on April 21st and April 22nd. All-purpose volunteers are needed to handle various logistical duties including serving meals to the Team, playing music, directing riders to the Enron Tent, setting-up and tearing-down, making massage appointments... to name just a few! Can't commit to the whole weekend? Participate where you can! Main sites include Bellville (Saturday lunch), LaGrange (overnight stop), Bastrop (Sunday lunch) and Austin (the FINISH LINE!). While everyone will be responsible for their own transportation & lodging, our volunteers are welcome to camp out with the Team in the Enron Tent in LaGrange. You may also investigate the possibility of staying at lodging establishments in the area. All volunteers will receive a free Enron Cycling Club tee-shirt, free meals and a priceless experience. Feel free to bring along your friends and family to volunteer, too! Take this opportunity to be a hero for our riders who take on this cycling adventure to benefit the National Multiple Sclerosis Society supporting the Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Austin, and Corpus Christi areas. Please contact Heather Choate via e-mail or at x33278 for more information! VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR 15TH ANNUAL HOUSTON HOOP-IT-UP MAY 5-6! The best way to get yourself jump-started for a full year of Hoops. Become a part of this jammin,hoops scene with over 1,200 teams & 4,800 players. Join us at Greenspoint Mall for a basketball-crazed atmosphere. Games and special events being played simultaneously on 110 courts so the basketballs will be flying HOOP-IT-UP is where you play for FUN. EVENT BENEFITS THE &ESCAPE FAMILY RESOURCE CENTER8 SATURDAY ) MAY 5TH 8:00 ) 6:00 PM SUNDAY ) MAY 6TH 8:00 ) 5:00 PM For more information please call &Hoop-It-Up Hotline8: 713-521-4535 or E-Mail: Hoopitup@Texas.Net Join the Integrated Solutions Team & PSI Homesavers on April 21 & April 28! Enron is proud to support PSI Homesavers with three crews for their annual spring volunteer project. More crews can be added so sign up to participate or include your team! Responsibilities include being part of a work crew to complete needed exterior home repairs for low income, predominately elderly homeowners in Houston neighborhoods. Contact Donnis Traylor at. ext. 55667 for more information! M.D. Anderson will be at Enron April 23-25 and April 27 to administer mammograms. Call 713-745-4000 to schedule an appointment. Cost is $25 for employees, spouses, retirees and EDS; $85 for contractors. Please consider donating an extra $1 to The Rose (an organization that provides free mammograms to low-income women). Double click on the icon below to learn more about the new Enron Kids' Center. http://home.enron.com:84/messaging/e_kids_announce01.pdf Have News to Share? To post news or events in Enron In Action, please e-mail your information to EIA@enron.com no later than 12:00 noon the Thursday prior to the next Monday,s mailing.
