From: customersupport@factiva.rsc01.com
To: mary.hain@enron.com
Date: Mon, 11 Jun 2001 07:05:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Announcing the launch of Factiva.com
[IMAGE] June 11, 2001 Today, I am pleased to announce Factiva.com, the capstone of our content integration products and the powerful new service that will replace Dow Jones Interactive and Reuters Business Briefing. You're going to see some amazing new features in Factiva.com. Many of these have been driven by the results of a global research program that included input from 300 global customers and prospects, who also provided feedback at every stage of our interface design process. What's the result? A new, innovative product that addresses your need for both global and local information. By building upon the DJI and RBB content sets we've created a unique global collection of nearly 8,000 sources from 118 countries in 22 languages. Through Factiva Intelligent Indexing, we've addressed the need to provide more granular coding. We've also improved power searching, and concentrated on the personalization and ease of use that end users demand - all to make retrieval more accurate and relevant. The research also identified that up to 40% of your time is spent assembling and disseminating information, so we've designed tools to make these steps faster. In an enterprise product you needed to be able to manage group access to information, so we've added powerful administration tools. Because Factiva.com redefines how business people gather the critical facts they need to make good business decisions we believe you'll want to upgrade to it quickly. We will continue to support DJI and RBB, but eventually we will phase out these products as we devote all of our resources to the Factiva product set. We will tell you at least one year in advance of this, probably in mid-2002, anticipating a final shut down in mid-2003. I encourage you to visit our Web site and look at Factiva.com at www.factiva.com/factiva and find out why we're so excited about its impact on improving your awareness of the external global business environment and increasing the productivity of your users. Please share your comments with me directly at Clare.Hart@factiva.com. ? Best Regards, [IMAGE] Clare Hart President and Chief Executive Officer [IMAGE] This message was sent by Factiva, a Dow Jones & Reuters Company. Click here to view our privacy policy. Click here if you feel you have received this message in error, or if you wish to unsubscribe from this mailing list. [IMAGE]
