From: phillip.platter@enron.com
To: jeff.richter@enron.com, tim.belden@enron.com, john.forney@enron.com, 
	murray.o'neil@enron.com
Date: Sun, 26 Nov 2000 07:19:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: IT problems Sunday
Please be advised of a serious problem with Terminal Server! We were all kicked out of Terminal Server consistently on Sunday. At first it happened about every half hour (9am to 10:30a.m). Then it happened every 5 minutes. Communication seemed slow. We paged and called the Portland IT Team at 11:30 (Diana & Chip). At 12noon Diana said Chip and Paul Kane were working on it. At around 12:30 Paul Kane called back and said "Vince" in Houston was working on it. We asked for Vince's Phone number and Paul stated that Vince would call us instead. Vince called at about 1:00 and said everything was now working. Five minutes later we were still getting kicked out. We then paged and called Chip and he said he was trying to get ahold of Houston. At 1:30 we called the Resolution Center. They indicated they had no clue we were having problems. At 1: 45 we called Greg Marsalis in Houston and he said he was unaware of who was working on it, but was going to look into it. Greg did look into it and said they were still not able to pinpoint the problem. At this writing,(3:10p.m.) we are still not able to use Terminal Server and consequently are unable to transact with the ISO or to enter deals in enpower. This has also affected our connection to PX Trade App. We are effectively prevented from taking advantage of market conditions in California. Earlier I had started to initiate some congestion relief on the Palo Verde tie . Cong was $225 to $250 at Palo and I was confident I could take advantage by moving power out of SP. I was unable to do anything in Caps as I was kicked out every few minutes. I feel the communication process regarding this problem has been flawed. I'm sure there is plenty of blame to go around . I suggest we meet with IT to define a process where we will get immediate attention and results. As of 3:20 we still have the same problems. I am hoping this problem is isolated to Sunday.
