From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all_ena_egm_eim@enron.com
Date: Thu, 1 Mar 2001 10:13:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: EnTouch Newsletter
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Weather Risk Management Next week, Jeff Shankman and Mark Tawney will be attending the Weather Risk Management Association (WRMA) conference in Tokyo. There has been a lot of interest in Japanese weather derivatives to-date. Even though Japan is geographically a relatively small country, due to elevation differences, there are several different climates and within each of those areas, there,s a significant amount of volatility in day-to-day and season-to-season weather. By leveraging EnronOnline and our global portfolio approach, Enron Global Markets will be the dominant weather market player in Japan, as we are in the US, Australia and Europe. COMING SOON - New EWS Training Web Site Ernie is retiring and there is a new tool to help you manage your professional development. It,s called InvestInMe.enron.com and it is the key to your future. In a user-friendly format, you will find the current listing of internal programs, access to a database of external programs, and registration for on-line courses. Watch for details in your email. Launch date is Tuesday, March 6, 2001. IN THE NEWS Analyst Robert C. Ollech, vice president and portfolio manager at Ziegler Investment Services Group, says Wall Street will like Enron even more as demand for natural gas increases, volume continues to grow on its online marketplace and as the company's broadband business starts making money. Enron, which has beat analysts' estimates in five of the past seven quarters, is not a cheap stock. But Ollech says its relatively young management team is focused on maximizing systems and business lines it has spent five years developing. Plus, the company is selling such assets as a power plant in Oregon, moves Ollech says could boost its return on equity to 18% or higher from the present 12%. "This is an innovative story that's finally getting out," Ollech says. 02/25/2001 The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. WELCOME New Hires ENA ) Angelic Davis, Dipak Agarwalla, Sean Maki, Juliann Kemp, Bridget Fraser EIM ) Louis Amo Transfers EGM ) Patrick Conner EIM ) Douglas Seaworth ENA ) Eric Feitler, Santiago Garcia, Philip Polsky, Lauren Schlesinger NUGGETS & NOTES &If you,re not trading EOL, you,re not trading.8 ) John L. Wilson, Vice President/EGM &Training(.all the cool kids are doing it!8 ) Tom Wilbeck/ENA Congratulations to Michelle and David Vitrella, manager of trading/EGM. They are the proud parents of a baby girl born February 27 weighing over 9 lbs. NEWS FROM THE GLOBAL FLASH International World Watch Compiled by David I. Oyama Enron Seeks Deals for Japanese Assets The Japanese unit of U.S. power producer and trader Enron is considering asset swaps with Japanese power companies, in a deal that would make Enron the first foreign company to buy a Japanese power plant. An Enron Japan official said it is talking to power companies and "owners of power generators in Japan about the possibility of asset exchanges," confirming a report in the Japanese business daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun. The report also said Enron Japan may enter deals with Japanese companies for joint power-generation acquisitions abroad. Japanese deregulation measures have opened the door to new foreign and domestic competitors in an industry dominated for years by 10 regional Japanese firms. Enron Japan was established last May, two months after deregulation measures were passed allowing nonutility companies to begin supplying power to large commercial users such as shopping centers and office towers. 03/01/2001 The Wall Street Journal (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) LEGAL STUFF The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries. It is intended for internal use only and should not be disclosed.
