From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 04:25:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Two Coal Plants Announced In the Past Two Weeks
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com In an exclusive SCIENTECH PowerHitters Interview, Pat Wood, Chairman of the Texas Public Utility Commission, discusses the issues surrounding Texas and California deregulation, as Texas announces its Texas Electric Choice Pilot Program. See the questions Wood was asked at: www.ConsultRCI.com [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 27, 2001 Two Coal Plants Announced In the Past Two Weeks by Bob Bellemare Vice President, Utility Services U.S. Electric Power of Point Lookout, New York, announced plans to construct a 249 megawatt (MW) coal fired power plant at Cherry Point in Whatcom County, Washington. Just last week, Reliant Energy Seward LLC, a subsidiary of Reliant Energy, announced it is planning on constructing a 520 MW circulating fluidized bed (CFB) clean-coal power plant in Indiana County, Pennsylvania. Analysis: As the United States awakes from its energy policy slumber, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the days of near complete reliance on natural-gas-fired generation to meet our growing energy needs is coming to an end. According to EIA statistics, natural gas prices have risen to historic highs with January 2001 utility deliveries exceeding $10/MMBtu, compared to 1998 and 1999 prices which floated between $2 and $3/MMBtu. Virtually overnight, natural gas has gone from one of the least expensive generation fuels to one of the most expensive. Since the January price spike, prices have settled back down to the $4 to $5.5 /MMBtu level for Henry Hub futures prices, but even these prices would have been considered high just twelve months ago. Coal, by comparison, is the United States most abundant fuel source, constituting 95 percent of our nation's fossil energy reserves. Coal prices have actually dropped for utility deliveries over the past several years according to EIA statistics. In 1994, coal prices averaged $28.03/short-ton ($1.37/MMbtu) compared to $24.68/short-ton ($1.21/MMbtu) for second quarter 2000. Although coal generation currently represents over 51 percent of U.S. generation production, few plants have recently been built because of the environmental concerns associated with coal generation and the relatively low price for natural gas throughout the 1990s. In 1999, U.S. coal production actually declined by 2.1 percent which was primarily attributable to a large drop in coal exports coupled by smaller than usual growth in coal consumption for power generation. But brighter days may lie ahead for the coal industry. New, so-called "clean-coal" technologies are being tested and developed. In the 1970s and 80s the pressurized fluidized bed coal combustor (PFBC) was developed, removing sulfur (SO2) pollutants and limiting the formation of nitrogen oxide (NOx) pollutants inside the boiler. The need for scrubbers or other post-combustion controls was eliminated by technology. Texas New Mexico Power (TNP) constructed two 150 MW lignite-fired units that went operational in 1990 and 1991 based on the circulating fluidized bed (CFB) technology that Reliant is proposing for its 520 MW facility in Pennsylvania. The TNP One power plant was, however, extremely costly to build. Unit 1 cost $357 million ($2,380/kW) and Unit 2 cost $282.9 million ($1,886/kW) to construct. Another technology being developed is the integrated gasification-combined cycle (IGCC) technology that first converts coal into a combustible gas, cleans the gas of virtually all pollutants, then burns the gas in a turbine much like natural gas. More than 99 percent of sulfur, nitrogen, and particulate pollutants can be removed in the process. Three gasification power plants have been built in Florida, Indiana, and Nevada. In the early 1990s, PSI Energy and Destec teamed up to construct a 262 MW IGCC generating unit at the Wabash River Project in Indiana for a total installation cost of $592 million ($2,260/kW). In 1996, TECO completed the construction of its 250 MW IGCC generating unit at Polk Power station in Florida for a total installation cost of $508 million ($2,032/kW). Japan has also experimented with clean-coal technologies. In 1998, Hokkaido Electric Power Co. Inc. started commercial operation of a 75 MW PFBC power plant. Test operations are being carried out at two other plants, the 250 MW unit of Chugoku Electric Power Co. and the 350 MW unit of Kyushu Electric Power Co. Japan is also testing a pilot scale (1 MW) molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC) at a Chubu Electric Power Co. site. It is interesting to note that these advanced technologies have historically approached the installation cost of a nuclear plant, but have all the operational costs of a coal plant. Now market conditions have changed, and despite the high capital and operating costs, clean-coal technologies can economically compete with natural-gas-fired generation, if gas prices continue to remain high. Additionally, expectations are that the next generation of clean-coal power plants will cost significantly less than the early pioneers' cost. The Department of Energy (DOE) for example, assumes an IGGC power plant can be built for $1,315/kW with an average heat rate of 8,470 Btu/kWh in its "Annual Energy Outlook 2000" report. The DOE deserves a great deal of credit for bringing clean-coal technology to the point of commercialization. In 1984, the clean-coal experiment began in response to the U.S./Canadian transboundary problem of acid rain. In March of 1987, President Reagan agreed to a new $5 billion public-private initiative to make clean-coal technologies a reality. The program led to 40 projects in 18 states, including co-funding demonstration projects such as the PSI/Destec and TECO facilities. In the mid-1980s the only options for reducing NOx pollution cost $3,000 per ton; today's low NOx burners have reduced this cost to under $200/ton. These low NOx burners have also reduced emission levels from 700 parts per million (ppm) in the early 1970s to 100 ppm today. Furthermore, the Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) process reduces more than 80% of the NOx contained in coal combustion gas. The DOE reports that 75 percent of all coal-fired capacity in this country is now outfitted with low-NOx burners. Similarly, the cost for scrubbing technology, which removes sulfur pollutants, has been reduced 75 percent since the 1970s. The improvement of power generation efficiency will be one of the most important technical issues for coal power plants because of its high carbon content. The latest commercial plant has achieved a thermal efficiency of 43 percent by increasing steam temperature and pressure. Even with these improved efficiencies, the coal power plant of the future may still be unable to achieve the substantial greenhouse gas reductions that could be necessary to address global climate change concerns. There are other existing environmental regulations that may also limit the adoption of new coal generation. The SIP Call rule requires 22 Eastern states and the District of Columbia to reduce NOx emission by a specified amount by May 2003, with much of the reductions expected to come from coal-fired power plants. In 1997, the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter and ozone were adopted with an anticipated compliance cost for full attainment estimated at $37 billion per year (particulate) and $10 billion per year (ozone) respectively. The Supreme Court is reviewing these EPA rules, and recently supported the EPA's right to regulate these emissions [see 3/1/01 IssueAlert at www.ConsultRCI.com]. These rules are significant since they will lead to additional NOx and SO2 emission reductions, the two precursors to fine airborne particles. Mercury reductions are also being contemplated. In November 1999 the EPA filed lawsuits against seven utility companies for Clean Air Act violations. In a settlement with TECO, TECO agreed to cut NOx and SO2 emissions by 85 percent by 2010 and pay a $3.5 million civil penalty. But in the end, the nation will likely turn to coal to help meet its growing energy demands. Great strides have been made to reduce the environmental impact of this abundant fuel source. Since 1970, the use of coal has more than doubled while emissions of sulfur and nitrogen pollutants have declined by 70 percent and 40 percent, respectively. If we can continue to achieve even greater emission reductions, coal may well help provide the energy bridge to the future. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
