From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.houston@enron.com
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2001 11:00:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Enron In Action 03.26.01
Watch for the "Trash Totem" in Antioch Park - March 26th - 30th What's that 20ft. thing out in Antioch Park? It's our Trash Totem constructed from items found in Buffalo Bayou over the past two weeks... compliments of your storm drain! This piece of art was created specifically for display at the upcoming 104 KRBE / Enron Earth Day Festival to educate Houston about trash that starts in storm drains ultimately ends up in the Gulf of Mexico. Designed by EEEs' own Sonia Garcia, the Trash Totem is co-sponsored by the Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Department along with Employee Involvement & Events. Take a moment to check it out... and think about it! Watch for the Trash Bash sign-up booth during lunch Thursday and Friday - see the volunteer section for details. Make Everyday Earth Day! Discounted tickets to 104 KRBE / Enron Earth Day are available for Enron employees to purchase for $16 (regular price = $20) on-line through the Signature Shop at www.enronsigshop.com now until Wednesday, April 4. Concert information is available at www.104krbe.com. Check out volunteer opportunities in the Volunteer Section below! Big E Cafe on Friday, March 30th! Join in on the Star Wars mania during lunch at the March Big E Cafe in Antioch Park from 11:30 AM until 1:00 PM on Friday, March 30th. Enjoy a $5 lunch from James Coney Island which includes Death Star Dogs, Boba Fett Burgers, or Vader Veggieburgers, dessert and a drink. The Museum of Fine Arts will be present to share information and provide details about the MFA Star Wars Exhibit sponsored by Enron. Watch for special appearances by Chewbacca and Darth Vader! Door prizes will include the Star Wars Trilogy box set (VHS or DVD) and Star Wars Trivia games. Come from a galaxy far, far away dressed as your favorite Star Wars character and get lunch for free! Jeff Skilling is the featured speaker at the Downtown Houston Association's Emerging Leaders' annual Vision Lunch being held on Thursday, March 29, 2001 at the Downtown Hyatt Regency. The lunch attracted approximately 180 people last year when Greg Brenneman, COO, of Continental Airlines spoke. This year we would like to have an even better turnout for our own Jeff Skilling. Registration is from 11:30 AM - 12:00 PM, followed by the program from 12 PM - 1:15 PM. Tickets are $25 for Downtown Houston Association members and $35 for non-members. To attend or if you have any questions, please call the Downtown Houston Association at 713-658-8938. Give us your best shot and join Cliff Baxter to help raise funds for Junior Achievement by participating in the Birdies for Charity Putting Contest in the Enron Lobby on Tuesday, April 3, from 11 a.m. ) 1 p.m. Watch for special appearances by Jeff Skilling, Greg Whalley and others! Donate $5 and you will have three chances to sink a putt and be entered to win some great golf prizes! This group of young professionals is a fun, energetic group of young professionals in their twenties and thirties working hard to increase the awareness of DePelchin Children's Center among young adults in Houston. The organization hosts social gatherings, helping with various volunteer projects and raising funds for DePelchin Children's Center. Please call (713) 802-7648 or go to www.depelchin.org/young.html to learn how you can become a member. As a member of Young Friends, you will: receive free admission to social functions have the opportunity to volunteer for fun projects that benefit children who are served by DePelchin Children's Center be able to serve on Young Friends' committees receive the Directory of Members as well as DePelchin's quarterly newsletter, Todayhave the satisfaction of supporting one of Houston's most well-established charitable organizations. receive networking opportunities with other young professionals 2001 Museum of Fine Arts, Houston Corporate Partners Spring Reception, April 3! Be a part of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston 2001 Corporate Partners Spring Reception on Tuesday, April 3 at Law building of the MFA. Enjoy great food donated by ARIES Restaurant and The Redwood Grill, free drinks, cool art, and good friends. To attend or with questions call (713) 639-7585. Monday, April 9th Pecan Grove Country Club $125 a player (includes green fees, cart, lunch, dinner & 2 drink tickets) For registration call Donna Clement at (281) 240-8181 WalkAmerica, taking place April 29, is the March of Dimes biggest fund-raiser. Money raised from the WalkAmerica supports pioneering research and innovative programs that save babies born prematurely or with birth defects. Since its beginning in 1970, WalkAmerica has raised more than $1 billion to help give babies a fighting chance. Every dollar raised will be matched by Enron. You can read more about the March of Dimes at www.modimes.org. For more information, please contact Kimberly Nelson (ext. 33580) or Gina Taylor (ext. 37681). Old mobile phones don't just fade away, they retire to drawers and shelves across the country -- by some estimates, Americans have taken more than 200 million of these phones out of service. Now is the time to give them another chance! By bringing your old phones, bag phones, batteries, adapters, charging units and other cell phone-related items, you will support Enron's effort to benefit the Houston chapter of CARE. CARE is one of the world's largest international relief and development organizations with funds going directly to develop sustainable agricultural and economic systems, including medical and educational programs in Latin America, Asia, Africa, Europe and the Caribbean. All collected cell phones will be recycled back into use or disposed of in an environmentally responsible manner and your will receive a acknowledgement letter from CARE for this donation. Watch for the collection tables during lunch on Thursday (3/29) and Friday (3/30). This is an employee-driven initiative lead by Gavin Dillingham (x55961) in the Corporate Environmental, Health & Safety group. Enron is going head to head with American General Corporation and PriceWaterhouseCoopers to see who has the Most Employees participating in this year's Trash Bash on Saturday, March 31st - registration begins at 8 AM!! In addition, five randomly-selected Enron employees who participate will each receive two free tickets to the 104 KRBE Enron Earth Day Festival! All volunteers will also receive a free tee-shirt, free lunch and the opportunity to win fabulous door prizes including a $225 gift certificate to West U Schwinn! Please contact Jessica Nunez or Jennifer Milligan via e-mail to reserve your slot on the Enron Team and help us clean-up Buffalo Bayou! Can you CANOE?? Let her know when you sign up! Support TEAM ENRON and Jeff Skilling by participating in the MS150 from Houston to Austin on April 21st and April 22nd. All-purpose volunteers are needed to handle various logistical duties including serving meals to the Team, playing music, directing riders to the Enron Tent, setting-up and tearing-down, making massage appointments... to name just a few! Can't commit to the whole weekend? Participate where you can! Main sites include Bellville (Saturday lunch), LaGrange (overnight stop), Bastrop (Sunday lunch) and Austin (the FINISH LINE!). While everyone will be responsible for their own transportation & lodging, our volunteers are welcome to camp out with the Team in the Enron Tent in LaGrange. You may also investigate the possibility of staying at lodging establishments in the area. All volunteers will receive a free Enron Cycling Club tee-shirt, free meals and a priceless experience. Feel free to bring along your friends and family to volunteer, too! Take this opportunity to be a hero for our riders who take on this cycling adventure to benefit the National Multiple Sclerosis Society supporting the Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Austin, and Corpus Christi areas. Please contact Heather Choate via e-mail or at x33278 for more information! Please contact Charla Reese at x35202 if you are a member of a band that would interested in playing at an Enron employee event. On Saturday, April 7th, volunteers are needed to work the KRBE Kid's Zone and the Ultimate Enron Solar-Powered Anti-Haze Maze at the 104 KRBE / Enron Earth Day Festival. As a volunteer, you'll receive a free special-edition volunteer tee-shirt, one (1) free ticket to the concert and free lunch!!! A brief orientation will take place in the Energizer on Tuesday, March 27th at 3:00pm. Please call Jessica Nunez at ext. 31918 to reserve your slot! Spaulding for Children's Spring Family Picnic will be held on March 31 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Regal Ranch. We are looking for volunteers to donate an hour or so in every area from check in to games to photography. Attendees will include Spaulding for Children's foster and adoptive families, people who are thinking about becoming foster or adoptive parents and community supporters like you! Enron has supported Spaulding for Children for several years through the United Way and through direct gifts, thanks in great part to the advocacy of Elizabeth Labanowski. SFC is committed to its mission of placing abused and neglected children with permanent adoptive families and providing on-going support to families after adoption. If you are interested in learning more about Spaulding for Children's FREE adoption programs, visit their web site at www.spauldingforchildren.org or call 713-681-6991. If you would like to volunteer at the Family Picnic, email your preference of activity and time to Kirsten Joel kjoel@spauldingforchildren.org. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR 15TH ANNUAL HOUSTON HOOP-IT-UP MAY 5-6! The best way to get yourself jump-started for a full year of Hoops. Become a part of this jammin,hoops scene with over 1,200 teams & 4,800 players. Join us at Greenspoint Mall for a basketball-crazed atmosphere. Games and special events being played simultaneously on 110 courts so the basketballs will be flying HOOP-IT-UP is where you play for FUN. EVENT BENEFITS THE &ESCAPE FAMILY RESOURCE CENTER8 SATURDAY ) MAY 5TH 8:00 ) 6:00 PM SUNDAY ) MAY 6TH 8:00 ) 5:00 PM For more information please call &Hoop-It-Up Hotline8: 713-521-4535 or E-Mail: Hoopitup@Texas.Net Weight Watchers "At Work" is gearing up for another session. Cost is $164 for 15 weeks ($143 for Weight Watchers "Lifetime Members"). There are 30 spaces remaining and they will be filled on a first-come, first-served basis. Reserve your space by e-mailing georgia.fogo@enron.com. Classes are held every Wednesday at 11:45 a.m. beginning April 4. E-mail confirmations for class participants will begin on Monday, April 2. Have News to Share? To post news or events in Enron In Action, please e-mail your information to EIA@enron.com no later than 12:00 noon the Thursday prior to the next Monday,s mailing.
