From: lynn.blair@enron.com
To: w..cantrell@enron.com, alfredo.huertas@enron.com
Date: Thu, 30 Aug 2001 12:20:27 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: RE: Open Access in the USA - A visit
Alfredo, I would be glad to visit with you tomorrow (Friday) anytime after 1:00 p.m. You can call me at X37637 or if you get my phone mail you can call Ava Garcia at X35842 and she will find me for you. Thanks. Lynn -----Original Message----- From: Cantrell, Rebecca W. Sent: Thursday, August 30, 2001 2:01 PM To: Huertas, Alfredo; Blair, Lynn Subject: RE: Open Access in the USA - A visit Alfredo, I am pretty open for the rest of today and tomorrow as well. I am at EB4741c (on the southeast side of the floor overlooking the new building). Just come by if you are up here. You could call me at X.35840 to confirm that I am at my desk. (I have to say that Lynn and her group provided most of the substantive information.) -----Original Message----- From: Huertas, Alfredo Sent: Thursday, August 30, 2001 12:01 PM To: Cantrell, Rebecca W.; Blair, Lynn Subject: FW: Open Access in the USA - A visit Rebecca/Lynn Thanks for your time spent with Mauro. I am today and tomorrow in Houston, and I would like to have a chance to see you and briefly discuss the issues you touched with him. Mauro is sending me a memo with the topics by end of today. tx, a. -----Original Message----- From: Mauro Formaggio [mailto:MFORMAGGIO@autorita.energia.it] Sent: jueves, 30 de agosto de 2001 3:19 To: Huertas, Alfredo; Keenan, Amber; Greco, Fabio Cc: Claudio Di Macco Subject: Open Access in the USA - A visit Dear Amber, Alfredo and Fabio, many thanks for the opportunity of visiting Enron in Houston. Your colleagues provided me with a great lot of information and advice. Rebecca Cantrell and Lynn Blair were very kind and helpful, in sparing their time with me and in organizing other meetings with colleagues. They are very fine and I appreciate. Maybe we would discuss, should the occasion come, some of the aspects of open access in the USA and their appropriateness for the italian case. Best Regards Mauro Formaggio
