From: cameron.jeffreys@csfb.com
To: undisclosed-recipients@enron.com
Date: Mon, 26 Nov 2001 09:49:38 -0800 (PST)
Subject: CSFB: Energy Technology Bulletin - Issue 87
<<CSFB_EnergyTech_nov2601.pdf>> Summary: * A quick look at the correlation between the performance of the Energy Technology stocks and the price changes in both natural gas and oil. * Our conclusion is that there is no meaningful statistical correlation over time. Commodity price shocks may however exert short term influences on the shares but should not be used as a predictor. Regards, Marko Pencak Director Energy Technology Research CREDIT | FIRST SUISSE | BOSTON Voice: 416 352 4580 Fax: 416 352 4598 Email: marko.pencak@csfb.com Cameron Jeffreys, CFA Associate Analyst Energy Technology Research CREDIT | FIRST SUISSE | BOSTON Voice: 416 352 4581 Fax: 416 352 4598 Email: cameron.jeffreys@csfb.com This message is for the named person's use only. It may contain sensitive and private proprietary or legally privileged information. No confidentiality or privilege is waived or lost by any mistransmission. If you are not the intended recipient, please immediately delete it and all copies of it from your system, destroy any hard copies of it and notify the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended recipient. CREDIT SUISSE GROUP and each legal entity in the CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON or CREDIT SUISSE ASSET MANAGEMENT business units of CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON reserve the right to monitor all e-mail communications through its networks. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender, except where the message states otherwise and the sender is authorized to state them to be the views of any such entity. Unless otherwise stated, any pricing information given in this message is indicative only, is subject to change and does not constitute an offer to deal at any price quoted. Any reference to the terms of executed transactions should be treated as preliminary only and subject to our formal written confirmation.
