From: james.steffes@enron.com
To: jeff.dasovich@enron.com, paul.kaufman@enron.com, mary.hain@enron.com, 
	alan.comnes@enron.com, susan.mara@enron.com, steve.walton@enron.com
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2001 07:59:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Senators Dianne Feinstein and Gordon Smith Announce Partnership in
 Response to the Western Energy Crisis
----- Forwarded by James D Steffes/NA/Enron on 03/15/2001 03:58 PM ----- Linda Robertson 03/15/2001 02:53 PM To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron, Richard Shapiro/NA/Enron@Enron, James D Steffes/NA/Enron@Enron, Janel Guerrero/Corp/Enron@Enron cc: Subject: Senators Dianne Feinstein and Gordon Smith Announce Partnership in Response to the Western Energy Crisis Bad development. We are trying to get Steve an appointment with Smith next Tuesday. ----- Forwarded by Linda Robertson/NA/Enron on 03/15/2001 03:51 PM ----- Allison Navin 03/15/2001 03:46 PM To: Linda Robertson/NA/Enron@ENRON cc: Subject: Senators Dianne Feinstein and Gordon Smith Announce Partnership in Response to the Western Energy Crisis Senators Dianne Feinstein and Gordon Smith Announce Partnership in Response to the Western Energy Crisis March 15, 2001 Washington, DC - Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) today announced an agreement to introduce bipartisan legislation to restore stability and reliability to the Western energy market by directing the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to impose a temporary &just and reasonable8 wholesale rate cap or cost-of-service based rates. The legislation will also require the states involved in this effort to pass on the cost of the electricity to retail customers. However, the states would be able to determine how and when this would be done. In other words, California could choose to use tiered-pricing, real-time pricing or set a baseline rate above which prices would be passed through. &We now have a piece of legislation that can fix the broken electricity market and provide a period of reliability and stability in wholesale energy costs,8 Senator Feinstein said. &FERC has found the wholesale prices being charged in California to be unjust and unreasonable. This legislation essentially will mandate that once FERC makes such a finding, the agency will carry out its regulatory role. This is a $175 million a year agency. It is there to regulate the energy marketplace, and it should. What the Federal government can do is to provide a period of reliability and stability at a time of crisis. Unfortunately FERC has refused to do so.8 &California,s broken electricity market is a result of a flawed 1996 California law that deregulated wholesale costs, but left in place caps on retail prices. This was coupled with a requirement that the utilities divest themselves of their generating capacity and buy most of their electricity on the spot market, where prices have escalated dramatically. In hindsight all of this came together in a catastrophic scenario, so that today, California buys electricity at astronomical prices. We believe that FERC needs to act to help restore reasonable costs and stability to this marketplace.8 &Additionally, this agreement addresses the escalation of natural gas transportation costs. Last February, FERC began a two-year experiment to lift the cap on these costs and since that time we have seen the price of natural gas climb 400 percent higher in Southern California.8 Senator Feinstein added. Specifically, the compromise legislation would accomplish the following goals: Directs FERC to impose a just and reasonable wholesale rate cap, which can be load-differentiated based on supply and demand, or cost-of-service-based rates in the Western energy market (Western Systems Coordinating Council, including Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.) Addresses the issue of high natural gas transmission costs by reimposing FERC tariffs for natural gas transportation into California (FERC Order 637) and requiring natural gas sellers to declare separately the transportation and commodity components of the bundled rate for gray market transactions. Stipulates that the wholesale price cap or cost-of-service based rate will not apply to wholesale sales for delivery in a state that imposes a price limit on the sale of electric energy at retail that: precludes a regulated utility from recovering costs under the price cap or on a cost-of service based rate; or precludes a regulated utility from paying its bills. Establishes that the rate-making body of a state can determine how and when the wholesale rates will be passed on to ratepayers, including the setting of tiered pricing, real time pricing, and baseline rates. (With respect to the Bonneville Power Administration, BPA will be encouraged to seek to reduce rate spikes to economically distressed communities, while ensuring costs are recovered by the end of the next contract period in 2006.) Directs that after the date of enactment, utilities cannot be ordered to sell electricity or natural gas into a state without a determination by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that the seller will be paid. Directs that in the event that a state in the Western energy market does not meet the criteria described in this agreement, state public utilities commissions in the Western energy market can ensure that regulated utilities within their jurisdiction meet demand for electric energy in the utility,s service area before making sales into any such state. Establishes that the wholesale rate cap or cost-of-service based rates shall remain in effect until such time as the market for electric energy in the western energy market reflects just and reasonable rates, as determined by the Commission or until March 1, 2003, whichever is earlier.
