From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2001 03:56:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Dissension at FERC: Commission Divided On Price Caps, Future
 Leadership
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com [IMAGE] Rapidpartsmart is the newest, most powerful online parts search engine in the power industry. Rapidpartsmart is the complete source to locate, buy and sell engineered parts worldwide. Rapidpartsmart integrates over 5 million supply items into asset management and work management systems to ensure that you know all supply sources, all the time. Rapidpartsmart increases supply options, reduces outage risks and cuts inventory investment. Contact John Kelly at (727) 669-3006 for more information or go to www.rapidpartsmart.com [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 21, 2001 Dissension at FERC: Commission Divided On Price Caps, Future Leadership by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis [News item from Reuters, March 20] The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) said it remained divided on whether it should impose a temporary cap on wholesale prices in the western United States to prevent summer blackouts and price spikes. The three FERC commissioners, who regulate interstate electricity markets, testified at a House of Representatives Energy and Air Quality subcommittee hearing as California braced for another day of blackouts. Analysis: Since the start of deregulation in the early 1990s, FERC's various positions on how competition should unfold across the country have been fairly consistent. Despite its changing members, as a whole the five-member commission (with two positions currently open) has taken a "hands-off" approach to its regulatory role, preferring instead to allow free market forces to drive competition in the energy industry. In fact, Curt H,bert, appointed as FERC chairman in January by President Bush, told me in an interview during his tenure as a commissioner that he envisioned a time when FERC would step out of its regulatory role altogether. However, significant structural and philosophical changes within the FERC have surfaced since January, dovetailing with the departure of former chairman James Hoecker. As the federal regulatory body for the energy industry, FERC has the responsibility for setting price caps in all regions across the country. The debate over whether or not to take this controversial step seems to have exposed some inherent dissension within FERC at the very time when the future leadership of the commission has been cast in doubt. At the House of Representatives meeting on March 20, H,bert, a Republican, reiterated his objections to price caps. Chairman H,bert has maintained his long-standing opinion that wholesale price caps have done and can do "long-term damage." In January, H,bert told me, "I have seen no evidence that price caps will have any positive impact in creating a balanced market." Although still generally opposed to wholesale price caps on a federal or regional level, H,bert is willing to consider them as one possibility among other short-term resolutions to the ongoing market problems in California. Reuters reported that H,bert said at the hearings that "such controls are not a long-term solution and would discourage the industry from building more power plants to supply the West." Rather, H,bert believes that power generators need the financial incentive to build new power plants, both in California and elsewhere. H,bert was quoted at the subcommittee hearings as saying, "Market prices will increase supply and reduce demand, thus correcting the current imbalance. Capping prices through regulation or legislation will have exactly the opposite effect." Despite H,bert's opposition to wholesale price caps, fellow Commissioner William Massey, a Democrat, asserted that California and the western region were in such a state of disrepair that a temporary "time out" or price cap was needed to let the market stabilize. "The commission must act forcefully and decisively to reassure market participants, policymakers and consumers that jurisdictional wholesale markets will produce consumer benefits and just and reasonable rates," Massey said. In addition, Massey reportedly also said that "such a price cap could be calculated on a generator-by-generator basis at each generator's variable operating cost, plus a reasonable capacity adder, perhaps in the range of $25 per megawatt hour." Massey reiterated the severity of the crisis in California, noting that whereas wholesale power in the state cost $7 billion in 1999 it increased to $27 billion in 2000 and could exceed $70 billion for 2001. Rounding out the commission's divided opinion was Commissioner Linda Key Breathitt, a Democrat, who said that all possible options should be analyzed and debated. Breathitt did not specifically mention any preference for price controls. Chairman H,bert's stand against price caps is shared by Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham and seemingly the entire Bush administration. In fact, Abraham said that price caps on wholesale energy will "discourage investment in new generation at a time when it is most needed" and drive power producers to other regions of the country (and further away from California). The Energy Secretary reportedly issued an even stronger statement against price caps during a Senate hearing on the electricity crisis in California. "The only action the administration will not take is the implementation of price caps," Abraham said. Another House of Representatives Energy and Air Quality subcommittee hearing is scheduled for later this week. Subcommittee Chairman Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, noted that the subcommittee will work toward deciding whether or not legislation regarding wholesale price caps should be developed over the next few weeks. This is not the first time that clear schisms have become visible within FERC over major issues facing the energy industry. The commission also became divided regarding the scope of regulation regarding regional transmission organizations (RTOs). FERC's December 1999 vote on the Alliance RTO illustrated dissension within the commission and the divergent philosophies that the FERC commissioners hold regarding how the industry should be regulated. Then-Commissioner H,bert was of the opinion that the Alliance RTO met FERC guidelines for RTO formation, and was the sole member who successfully pushed for voluntary rather than mandatory participation in an RTO. However, H,bert stood as a minority. The other three commissioners at FERC at the time (Hoecker, Massey and Breathitt) preferred to wield a tighter regulatory hand and monitor how transmission owners comply with current transmission policy. While H,bert supports the ownership of RTOs by utilities and letting free market principles rule, the other commissioners at FERC appeared to support only passive ownership of RTOs by utilities. Meanwhile, speculation continues that President Bush will soon appoint Pat Wood III, chairman of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), to the position of FERC chairman. H,bert was named chairman in February by President Bush after James Hoecker resigned shortly before the new Republican administration took office Jan. 20. At that time, the president did not indicate that H,bert's appointment as chair was temporary. Wood was appointed by then Texas Governor Bush to the PUCT in 1995 and played a primary role in the development of that state's restructuring plan. (Electric choice begins in Texas on June 1, 2001, with the start of a pilot program and then the market opens fully to competition on Jan. 1, 2002). The possible shift in leadership at FERC appears to be politically motivated. There are two "Republican" openings to be filled at FERC by President Bush. As noted, presently H,bert is the only Republican among the current three members. Wood, reportedly a close ally and advisor to the former Texas governor, has been repeatedly named as a strong candidate for one of the Republican openings on FERC for some time. However, the Washington Post and Reuters have reported that Wood will be appointed as FERC chairman, forcing H,bert to step back into a role as commissioner. The report in Reuters indicated that H,bert, a friend and prot,g, of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), is personally "fighting the planned move." The nomination would require Senate confirmation. Moreover, as political drivers continue to impact the structure of FERC, the issue of price caps remains unresolved. The debate over price caps also has divided others involved, strictly along party lines. Generally speaking, Democrats believe that the federal government should step in to prevent what has been called "price gouging" on the part of energy companies. Republicans believe that the government (including FERC and the Bush administration) should maintain a "hands-off" approach and allow the marketplace to determine prices. Speaking from a non-partisan point of view, some economists now question whether*and not just how*deregulation of electricity markets should occur at all. For instance, Alfred E. Kahn, the Cornell University economist who helped deregulate other industries, says that electricity markets may not lend themselves to full competition and that there may be a value in retaining vertical integration among utilities (allowing a single regulated power company to produce, transmit and distribute electricity). The movement toward re-regulation certainly throws an additional wrinkle into the debate over wholesale price caps. Yet, in any event, once again California remains the catalyst for decision-making on this issue. As rolling blackouts threaten to continue into a third day in the state, federal lawmakers may be pressured to issue a definitive position on wholesale price caps for California, which of course would set a precedent for the rest of the country. As the industry's top agency in charge of wholesale markets, FERC's ultimate position on price caps carries tremendous influence. Despite the apparent dissension within the commission and possible changes in its leadership, FERC is presently challenged to formulate a solid policy on how wholesale transactions will be conducted, or once and for all absolve itself from jurisdiction in this area. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
