From: ecenter@williams.com
To: enl-members-html@estutenws11.energy.williams.com
Date: Wed, 17 Oct 2001 15:06:20 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Williams Energy News Live -- today's video newscast
Dear brad, The Washington bureau will have the latest on the anthrax scare on Capitol Hill on Thursday. Washington Bureau Chief Peter Cook says the decision to shut down the House of Representatives until Tuesday means at least one energy hearing on MTBE will be delayed. The Senate remains in session and we hope to hear from Senators on Thursday about the situation. Peter also says the bureau will have more reaction to the news that Department of Energy official Joe Kelliher has been picked by President Bush to fill the vacant seat at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Kelliher's name has been on the top of the list for some time, and now the decision is official. PSE?Director of Interregional Transmission Laura Manz will also join us from the Washington bureau on Thursday. Manz has been participating in the FERC RTO workshop, and she'll give us her take on what might come out of the weeklong meetings. Join us during the 10:00 a.m. ET newscast for the Manz interview. IBM Chemical and Petroleum Industry Vice President of Marketing Craig Hodges is penciled in from the Houston bureau on Thursday. IBM has been selected by Shell Oil to create the prototype for a wireless gas station named the e-Station. Catch Hodges during the noon ET newscast. West Coast Bureau Correspondent Kym McNicholas reports, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham will be in California to announce a new public-private partnership regarding "Path 15," a transmission bottleneck in California. Abraham will also give a keynote address at Hoover Institution's Conference on California's Electricity. Also from the West Coast bureau on Thursday, Kym talks with a Spokesperson about the Valero refinery's plan to build one power plant to operate the refinery and one to sell energy to off-site customers. The California Energy Commission is expected to decide Wednesday night whether to grant the Valero refinery, located in Benicia, a permit to build. From the NASDAQ in New York, NYMEX President Robert Collins will join us. He'll discuss the status of NYMEX operations and trading following the September 11th attacks during the 9:00 a.m. ET newscast. Keep in mind things are subject to change at a moment's notice. Occasionally guests cancel or change time slots. We'll continue to do our best to keep you updated on future interviews and events. Be sure to watch our newscasts every business day - 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET, at the top of each hour. Jay Rickerts, EnergyNewsLive.com Anchor View today's Energy Wrap video (Requires Windows Media Player or Real Player ) Experience all that Williams Energy News Live has to offer! If you are receiving this letter for the first time and wish to continue, subscribe now To stop receiving this letter, unsubscribe now If you are having trouble receiving this e-mail, please let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Comments? Suggestions? Let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Copyright 2001 Williams Energy News Live, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
