From: ecenter@williams.com
To: enl-members-html@estutenws11.energy.williams.com
Date: Wed, 21 Nov 2001 12:59:29 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Williams Energy News Live -- today's video newscast
Dear brad, The Washington bureau will have a full plate when we return from Thanksgiving break. Congress returns with many lawmakers urging action on energy legislation before the end of the year. Washington Bureau Chief Peter Cook says there's a long list of legislation ahead of energy in the Democrat-controlled Senate, but Republicans are threatening to force a vote through a filibuster. In turn, Democrats are saying they'll filibuster any energy bill containing a provision to open Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling. The legislation battle continues next week. Peter also says the Washington bureau will continue to follow the FERC's major decisions regarding how it assesses market power. The Commission announced a major change this week that will impact many of the large and small utilities across the country. Also next week, we'll see what Energy Daily Publisher Llewellyn King has to say about Pat Wood's performance as Chairman of the FERC. And rumors are flying about DOE Secretary Spencer Abraham - on Monday, King talks about the whispers he's hearing in Washington. ENL's Gale Smith will have a report from the Houston bureau next week on a Louisiana company that uses rice hulls to create power. Agrilectric Incorporated consumes some of this power, but most of the electricity is sold to an area utility company. We'll have details next week. Also, Houston Correspondent Kim Benestante will bring us coverage from the Alaska Resources Conference taking place next Thursday and Friday. We'll also bring you details on the final report regarding the chosen route of the Arctic natural gas pipeline. The report is due to Alaska's Governor on November 30. We'll hear from Center for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Technologies Executive Director John White next week. ENL's Kym McNicholas will speak with White about his organization's opposition to the state's long-term power contracts. Catch White from the West Coast bureau next week. Closing Prices for Nov. 21, 2001: Crude: $18.96 Unleaded: $0.5273 Heating Oil: $0.5342 Natural Gas: $2.813 Keep in mind things are subject to change at a moment's notice. Occasionally guests have to cancel or change time slots. We'll continue to do our best to keep you updated on future interviews and events. Have a great Thanksgiving break! We'll see you on Monday. Be sure to watch our newscasts every business day - 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET, at the top of each hour. Jay Rickerts, EnergyNewsLive.com Anchor View today's Energy Wrap Video Windows Media Player: 56K | 100K | 300K Real Player: 56K | 100K | 300K (Requires Windows Media Player or Real Player ) Experience all that Williams Energy News Live has to offer! If you are receiving this letter for the first time and wish to continue, subscribe now To stop receiving this letter, unsubscribe now If you are having trouble receiving this e-mail, please let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Comments? Suggestions? Let us know or call (800) WILLIAMS (800-945-5426) weekdays, 7am-7pm CST. Copyright 2001 Williams Energy News Live, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
