From: announcements.ubsw@enron.com
To:
Date: Wed, 6 Mar 2002 15:42:33 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Paycheck Update
UBSW Energy LLC Portland Employees Just a reminder, any of you that are still missing your 2/28 paychecks due to postal delays can contact me by e-mail at anthony.jarrett@ubswenergy.com <mailto:anthony.jarrett@ubswenergy.com> and I will request a wire transfer to deposit the funds directly into your accounts. Earnings statements for those of you that have already had wire transfers processed on 3/4 and 3/5 are now available at my desk ECS 05852. If you request a wire transfer, stop payments will be placed on your checks that were sent in the mail. Wire transfers may take as long as 24 hours for your bank to post. If you should receive the 2/28 checks by mail, there is no need to return the voided checks. If any of you have issues with late fees, etc. please let us know and we will be working with the Stamford, CT office to reimburse you for any losses. For those of you that have requested wire transfers I will overnight the statements to Chris Calgers attention. Thanks, Tony Jarrett -----Original Message----- From: UBSW Energy General Announcements Sent: Monday, March 04, 2002 10:50 AM Subject: Missing Paychecks The checks mailed from Stamford CT, last Monday in some instances where not received by Saturday and we are doing all we can to track these down and work with the affected employees to help them with any commitments they need to meet. While difficult to substantiate, it appears the late checks appear to be those for employees whose last names begin with an "S-Z" in the alphabet. We are hopeful these checks will arrive today, but if you are still missing a pay check, even if you have already called or spoken to me this morning, please e-mail me your home address to anthony.jarrett@ubswenergy.com <mailto:anthony.jarrett@ubswenergy.com> so I can verify the address in the system. If you have personal financial circumstances requiring this payment today please let me know and we will try to work with you on a case by case basis. We have already requested that paychecks for the 3/15 paydate be Fed Exed to the Houston office to prevent this delay next paydate. I would like to receive all notice's by Noon central time today. Thanks, Tony Jarrett (713) 853-7829 E-mail: anthony.jarrett@ubswenergy.com <mailto:anthony.jarrett@ubswenergy.com>
