From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2001 04:34:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: California Blackouts: A Prelude to a Long, Dark Summer?
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com e-ProCom for Utilities and Energy- March 20-22, 2001 e-Commerce and e-Business are concepts that offer the promise and expectation to deliver bottom line benefits, productivity enhancement, supply chain efficiencies and increased profitability to your business ) but what does the e-revolution mean in today's real energy world?The answers can be found at the e-ProCom for Utilities & Energy e-Business Conference & Exhibition, which is being held at the Baltimore Convention in Baltimore, Maryland on March 20-22, 2001 with a focus on the key issues, options, and alternatives from an industry based perspective. Please call (713) 463-9595 to obtain more information or visit our web site at: www.e-procomseries.com [IMAGE] Rapidpartsmart is the newest, most powerful online parts search engine in the power industry. Rapidpartsmart is the complete source to locate, buy and sell engineered parts worldwide. Rapidpartsmart integrates over 5 million supply items into asset management and work management systems to ensure that you know all supply sources, all the time. Rapidpartsmart increases supply options, reduces outage risks and cuts inventory investment. Contact John Kelly at (727) 669-3006 for more information or go to www.rapidpartsmart.com [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 20, 2001 California Blackouts: A Prelude to a Long, Dark Summer? by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis Citing an emergency shortage of electricity across the state, California power officials ordered rolling blackouts on Monday, March 19, in a move to avoid toppling the power grid. The California Independent System Operator (ISO), which manages about 75 percent of the transmission grid serving the state's 34 million residents, ordered the blackouts shortly before noon Pacific time and said they would likely last through 8 p.m. Pacific time on March 19. It was the first time rolling blackouts have hit the southern half of the state and the third time this year in the north, following two days of outages on Jan. 17 and 18. Analysis: Despite all the recent efforts taken by Calif. Gray Davis to solve the state's severe energy problems, it now seems inevitable that California is headed toward another volatile summer full of power problems. One of the state's fundamental problems*supply that cannot keep up with demand*is being addressed by the governor (and the Bush administration) and is projected to be solved within the next two or three years. However, the new power supply that is being planned to serve the state is not coming online quickly enough to stave off problems for this summer. In addition, the current rolling blackouts facing the state are worse than previously enforced cutbacks and have impacted almost all parts of the state as opposed to more confined areas. The most recent problem appears to have resulted from unusually warm weather in the southern part of the state that drove up use of air-conditioned power. This left the state as a whole with limited reserves at a time when power plant maintenance and a lack of hydropower already was causing problems in Northern California. Reportedly, about 13,400 MW of power were lost due to a transformer fire at a Southern California plant and other idled plants across the state. In addition, about 2,000 to 3,000 MW of production from qualifying facilities (QFs) was unavailable on the day of the rolling blackouts. The QFs that were offline typically have produced only small amounts of power under contract to the state's three major utilities. However, the QFs have stopped producing in recent weeks as a result of the financial problems of Pacific Gas & Electric Co. and Southern California Edison and the fact that they have been paid only a small percentage of what they are owed for power previously produced. Under normal circumstances, the QFs can generate as much as 30 percent of the state's electricity needs. As a result, the California ISO issued a Stage 3 emergency alert, the highest level of emergency, indicating that power reserves had fallen below 1.5 percent. In addition, Pacific Gas & Electric Co. implemented blackouts across Northern California, including San Francisco and the Silicon Valley. Southern California Edison turned off the lights in neighborhoods around Los Angeles. Together, the two utilities serve about 24 million Californians, and operated the rolling blackouts by moving through a series of predetermined "blocks" of customers. Operators at substations were directed to turn off power for a block of customers for about 60 to 90 minutes, then restore service and move on to a subsequent block of customers. Public safety outlets such as police and fire stations were not included in the rolling blackouts, although other public services such as traffic lights were affected by the outages. While the rolling blackouts occurred, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham spoke at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and acknowledged that California clearly will not have enough power supply to meet demand this summer. Abraham said that the state will need about 61,000 MW to meet summer demand while only 56,000 MW of generation is expected to be available. Abraham also reiterated that the Bush administration will present "a very comprehensive and balanced energy plan" in the coming weeks, one that most likely will focus on increasing domestic supply and reducing U.S. dependence on foreign sources for oil (as well as conservation efforts). "There's really only three things you can do about a difference between supply and demand," Abraham said. "One is to conserve more. The second is to import more. And the third is to produce more. I think we want to focus more on conserving more and producing more rather than depending more on other countries." However, only days earlier, the Bush administration warned that electricity blackouts in California "appear inevitable" this summer, but continued to issue a strong statement of opposition to addressing the problem with wholesale price caps. In fact, Abraham said that price caps on wholesale energy will "discourage investment in new generation at a time when it is most needed" and drive power producers to other regions of the country (and further away from California). The Bush administration's position on price caps is in contrast with what appears to be a change in policy from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), which historically has also opposed any regional price caps. A report that originated in the Wall Street Journal last week indicated that FERC is leaning toward setting tighter limits on the price that generators can charge for power in California, particularly on hot summer days when shortages could be acute. Reportedly, a new rule from FERC on wholesale price caps would set maximum prices during electrical emergencies based on each plant's actual operating costs. Yet, Abraham remains firm that price caps will do nothing to abate the blackouts for which Californians appear to be headed this summer. At a Senate hearing on price control legislation last week, Abraham said, "Let me be clear on this. Any action we take must either help increase supply or reduce demand. ... Price caps will not increase supply or reduce demand. In fact, they will aggravate the supply crisis." Thus, we return to the fundamental problem that will continue to cause problems in California and other areas: the need for new power supply and time limitations associated with establishing that supply. In my IssueAlert for March 9, I addressed the discrepancy regarding California's power needs versus power supply. The conclusions I made at that time now appear to be further validated. During the month of August*typically the hottest month in California*peak daily demand for power in the California ISO territory is expected to hit about 47,700 MW. The state's three IOUs*PG&E, SCE and San Diego Gas & Electric*still generate about 8,000 MW from their remaining power plants and have long-term contracts from wind, solar and other energy sources that gain them an additional 11,700 MW of power. Gov. Davis has established that about 7,000 MW from the long-term contracts will be available this summer. In addition, back in February, Davis announced a plan to expedite the approval and siting process for new power plants in the state, which he promised would bring 5,000 MW online by July (an ambitious goal that may or may not materialize). Altogether, assuming that all of these projections are reliable, the total comes to about 31,700 MW that we know should be available in California this summer, leaving the state about 16,000 MW short for its power supply needs. As noted, Abraham has suggested a California supply / demand imbalance of 61,000 MW of demand versus 56,000 MW of supply, which would make for a slightly less severe scenario. However, Abraham has not fully detailed the data on which he has based his projections. Nevertheless, no matter how the actual numbers shake out, most everyone agrees that the summer prognosis is not good for California. Rather than questioning if additional blackouts will occur, the ongoing debate relates to how severe the anticipated outages will become and how long they will last before additional power supply can be established in the state. And, although today marks the first day of spring and summer is officially still weeks away, California's problems have already started in full force. According to statements from the California ISO, some of the power supply that had been offline due to mechanical problems during the day on March 19 could be back online by March 20. However, that will account for only about 300 to 700 MW, which is not nearly enough to offset additional problems for California this week (assuming that temperatures in the state remain warm). Yet, as one energy executive once commented, California continues to apply Band-Aids on hemorrhaging wounds. While the state continues to send out its SOS signal, what is needed is a reliable, long-term solution that will provide a substantial amount of power to Californians. There is little chance of this solution being found before this summer, so as the temperature continues to rise on the West Coast, California energy officials will be challenged to contain the damage of the state's ongoing energy crisis. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
