From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.states@enron.com
Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2001 10:40:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Web Based Expense Report Implementation Deadline
XMS COMMUNICATION The Expense Management System (XMS) is a tool used to electronically submit your expense report for approval and payment through the Enron Intranet. It is user friendly, accurate and less labor intensive for you and our accounting staff. This product was initially made available October 15, 2000 and approximately 50% of the Houston employees are currently using it to submit their expense reports. Our goal is to have all Enron employees using the XMS system by April 15 (income tax day*easy to remember). There are some changes coming to the Accounts Payable (AP) Department that are compelling us to fully utilize the XMS system. In the near future paper and e-mail directed expense reports will not be accepted. If you are unsure of how to use the XMS system there is training available through LEAP that will explain how to use the system. The following training information is from the December 14th Enron Announcement about XMS: TRAINING Go to the IT Central web page. Select Services>Training. Click on "Schedules" in the North America column, and go to the XMS Workshop schedule to choose your class. If no> classes are listed, call the training department and place your request at (713) 853-1816. Those in outlying locations and those who prefer on-line training can use LEAP by signing on to isc.enron.com and clicking on "training and education," then LEAP (shown as a link). Use xms (lower case) as the User ID and Password. DOCUMENTATION Step by Step documentation is also available from IT Central web page. Select Services>Training. Click on "Documentation" in the North America column and choose XMS User's Guide from the list. APPLICATION SUPPORT SERVICES Call the ISC help desk at (713) 345-4SAP (4727). Do not call Accounts Payable with questions about how to use the system or with issues regarding electronic pre-populated data.
