From: issuealert@scientech.com
To:
Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2001 03:56:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: E.ON May Be Closing in on Purchase of Powergen
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The IBM e-Energy Executive Forum ) "Personalization, Partnership, and Profitability" Designed for executives in the utility industry looking to leverage Customer Relationship Management in the competitive marketplace. Topics will focus on how process and technology can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage. Featured speakers will include IT analysts, solution partners, IBM executives, and customers including: John Goodman, President of e-Satisfy; Richard Grimes, Director of CRM Energy Services; David Bonnett, Global e-Energy Sales Executive, Siebel Systems. www.ibm.com Miss last week? Catch up on the latest deregulation, competition and restructuring developments in the energy industry with SCIENTECH's IssuesWatch [IMAGE] The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH. [IMAGE] IssueAlert for March 26, 2001 E.ON May Be Closing in on Purchase of Powergen by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis [News item from Reuters] German utility E.ON AG is near a deal to take a stake in Britain's fourth largest power utility Powergen (NYSE: PWG) at a price 30 percent above current levels. According to the German paper Handelsblatt, E.ON's supervisory board reportedly will make a final decision in the next week. Powergen, meanwhile, said it is still in talks on a possible offer from another company. "There can be no assurance that these discussions will result in an offer being made for the company," Powergen said in a statement. The company first announced that it was in talks to be purchased on Jan. 16. Analysis: The word that E.ON, Europe's second largest power company, would buy a stake in Powergen at a fat 30-percent premium of around 6.90 pounds increased Powergen's British stock price by as much as 7 percent to reach 739 pence. A combination of the two companies would create a power firm on par with Europe's largest power companies, France's EDF and Italy's Enel. Since talks about a potential acquisition by E.ON surfaced in January, Powergen's stock price has climbed 21 percent. In addition, according to Reuters, Powergen jumped to the top of the gainers list for the United Kingdom's FTSE 100 blue chip index. On March 22, Powergen stock reached 739 pence, while the FTSE 1000 index was down 2.5 percent at 27-month lows. Powergen also trades in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange, where Powergen shares opened March 26 at $42.00. If the rumors about Powergen's price tag are true, E.ON would end up paying more than nine pounds a share or six billion pounds (U.S. $8.5 billion) for the U.K.-based Powergen, which carries a debt of about 5.2 billion pounds. These projections exceed previous reports from financial analysts who suggested that E.ON would pay no more than eight pounds a share for Powergen. E.ON might be feeling increased pressure to finalize a deal with Powergen since other players such as Scottish Power have also expressed interest in the company. With significant capital to spend (Reuters reported up to $50 billion including proposed divestitures), E.ON reportedly believes that Britain, where demand is outpacing the rest of Europe, is the best country in which to begin a rapid expansion strategy. Despite the fact that Powergen had previously acknowledged that it was working on a deal with E.ON, over the last week it has maintained that discussions continue with other companies. E.ON, formed as a result of last year's merger between Veba and Viag, supplies Germany and Europe with electricity, heating, natural gas, water and petroleum. Germany, which opened 100 percent of its energy market all at once in April 1998, has undergone a period of rapid consolidation. As a result, the largest power companies in the country have begun seeking competitive opportunities across the Continent (this is a growing trend in Europe as companies from other countries are following the same competitive strategy). E.ON must expand outside of its home country, where analysts have speculated that core profits in its generation business have become unstable. In many ways, consolidation is a means of survival for E.ON, as Europe continues to liberalize and electricity prices fall as a result. Powergen*which generates about 14 percent of the electricity used in England and Wales and has electric and gas operations throughout Europe, India, Asia and Australia*is a company that became known for its global expansion efforts, especially in the United States. Just last December, Powergen completed a $3.2 billion acquisition of Louisville, Ky.-based LGOEnergy Corp. Powergen had wanted for some time to penetrate the U.S. market, as a result of consolidation that had taken place in the United Kingdom. The acquisition of LGObecame appealing to Powergen because of the U.K. company's desire to establish a strong presence in the Midwest market. Altogether, LG&E's two utilities and numerous unregulated businesses total about $5 billion in assets, which was thought to support any further expansion that Powergen might have had in mind. Powergen has a market capitalization of $6.66 billion and P/E ratio of 11.02 (according to Yahoo Finance). However, the company has struggled over the last year. Powergen's primary subsidiary, LGOEnergy, saw its profit for 2000 decline by 4 percent to $497 million from $518 million. As the parent company, Powergen saw its profits decline by 12 percent in 2000, to $518 million from $590 million, although its revenue increased 11 percent to $6 billion, up from $5.4 billion in 1999. Keep in mind that Powergen's acquisition of LGOwas not completed until December 2000, so LG&E's earnings will be reflected fully in its parent's financial report starting this year. If E.ON were to acquire Powergen, it would gain several strategic advantages. E.ON would no longer be reliant solely on the German market, where falling prices and continued consolidation limit competitive opportunities. In addition, the purchase would give E.ON a hold on generating assets in the United Kingdom, and the comparatively low-cost power production, 3.7 million customers and various business operations that LGOoffers in the United States. As noted, Powergen has acknowledged that it has received approaches from E.ON and other companies. Based on available reports, those "other companies" are most likely RWE (Germany's largest power supplier and a rival of E.ON), Vivendi and Suez Lyonnaise (French mega-utilities) and an unnamed American power company (Enron or Southern Energy would be my best guess). However, word from its management team is that Powergen is not interested in getting tied up (as a purchased entity) in merger or acquisition proceedings at this time as it may be planning additional purchases of its own in the United States. On the other hand, the rationale for Powergen to be sold to a company like E.ON is taking shape. British restructuring law has forced large generators to sell power stations to reduce any likelihood of market power. As a result, Powergen has morphed from a pure U.K. generating company to a broad-based company engaged in telecommunications, gas, and distribution services. Ed Wallis, Powergen's CEO, has stated that presently it has become very difficult for Powergen to compete with larger rivals in an enlarged European market. As noted, Powergen's strategy over the last year has been one of further expansion in the United States, and the purchase of LGOwas perhaps more expensive than Powergen had planned. In order to make further U.S. acquisitions, Powergen needs adequate capital or equity in order to finance the acquisition, something that has become more difficult since its purchase of LG&E. Nevertheless, if the deal takes place it will require regulatory approval in the United States from FERC, the SEC and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (among other possible agencies). The climate for U.S. energy industry mergers and acquisitions has become rather turbulent in recent weeks. Three high-profile mergers (Entergy / FPL Group, Con Edison / Northeast Utilities and Sierra Pacific Resources / Portland General) have all encountered difficulties that could derail their pending deals. In addition, according to a recent report in the Wall Street Journal, announced worldwide mergers and acquisitions this year totaled $390.4 billion (as of March 21), which is about one-third of the volume during the same period last year. Also, about 164 merger deals have been withdrawn from the market, compared with 153 deals that were withdrawn for the same period last year, according to the WSJ report. Analysts that have been closely watching the potential for an E.ON / Powergen deal say that Powergen's U.S. operations in LGOcould prove to be a major stumbling block for the two companies, and that E.ON may find U.S. regulatory requirements to be much more stringent than those in Europe. Specifically, the SEC has strict rules regarding what kinds of companies can own public utilities (a category into which LGOfalls) and E.ON's diverse, non-power operations may send some red flags to American regulators. Consequently, although E.ON appears rather confident that this deal will be completed rather soon, Powergen's reported resistance and U.S. regulatory obstacles may thwart this yet-to-be-formally-announced partnership. An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your company can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also available on our website. SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH information products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and email address or register directly on our site. If you no longer wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert, and include the word "delete" in the subject line. SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the independent analysis of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any kind. SCIENTECH's sole purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective regarding the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing reputation as an expert on energy issues. Copyright 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights reserved.
