From: becky.spencer@enron.com
To: michelle.cash@enron.com
Date: Thu, 18 Oct 2001 06:31:40 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: RE: New Temp IDs
Michelle, This is not a problem. Twanda usually makes arrangements in her instructions to the temporary so we can work around it. I agree with you that your files are highly confidential and no one should have access unless you so designate. My message was a general one that went out to everyone in the department. It's up to each individual to give access (or not) to whatever they would like a temp to use in order to support them in their Assistant's absence. We have set up the temporary ID's as per Mark Haedicke's office to give access mainly to calendars only in order to help the temp field phone calls, make appointments, and to generally let the temp know where everyone is in case Mr. Haedicke is looking for someone. -Becky -----Original Message----- From: Cash, Michelle Sent: Wednesday, October 17, 2001 10:01 PM To: Spencer, Becky Cc: Sweet, Twanda; Palmer, Lizzette; Goode, Diane; Meraz, Claudia Subject: RE: New Temp IDs Becky, Given the nature of what I do, no one in my group will be able to provide these types of temporary rights to documents or calendar entries. I do not believe that any of the other temporary ID's have access to our stuff, so I would think that these new IDs would be the same. I hope that does not pose a problem, but I believe that the confidentiality considerations should outweigh the convenience factor for a temporary worker. Let me know if you have any questions. Michelle -----Original Message----- From: Spencer, Becky Sent: Wed 10/17/2001 4:04 PM To: Adams, Suzanne; Dobbs, Kristi; Doucette, Margaret; Farrell, Keegan; Garcia, Nita; Garner, Joanne; George, Carolyn; Gonzalez, Esmeralda; Griffin, Vanessa; Haldeman, Sandy; Keesler, Martha; Keiser, Holly; Martinez, MaryHelen; Oliver, Shirley; Rozycki, Joanne; Simmons, Linda J.; Spencer, Becky; Laird, Susan; Sweet, Twanda; Truss, Stephanie; Wright, Alice; Zarsky, Lisa; Zucha, Theresa Cc: Aronowitz, Alan; Blaine, Michelle; Boomer, John; Brennig, Tammy; Brownfeld, Gail; Bruce, Robert; Bushman, Teresa G.; Carolan, Dominic; Cash, Michelle; Clark, Barton; Cook, Mary; Corbet, Nancy; Crady, Ned E.; Daniels, Eddy; Davis, Angela; Del vecchio, Peter; Dickson, Stacy E.; Dieball, Scott; Edison, Andrew; George, Robert H.; Gray, Barbara N.; Greenberg, Mark; Gresham, Wayne; Hansen, Leslie; Harkness, Cynthia; Hendry, Brent; Henry, Joseph; Hicks, Michelle; Hodge, Jeffrey T.; Jacobson, Kimberley; Koehler, Anne C.; Leite, Francisco Pinto; Lindeman, Cheryl; Lyons, Dan; Mann, Kay; McCullough, Travis; Mellencamp, Lisa; Moore, Janet H.; Murphy, Harlan; Murray, Julia; Nelson, Cheryl; Nemec, Gerald; Nettelton, Marcus; Pais, Randy; Palmer, Lizzette; Portz, David; Rivera, Coralina; Robison, Michael A.; Rogers, Daniel R.; Rossi, Robbi; Sager, Elizabeth; Sanders, Richard B.; Sayre, Frank; Schuler, Lance (Legal); Schwartzenburg, John; Shackleton, Sara; Sole III, Carlos; St. Clair, Carol; Stoler, Lou; Taylor, Mark E (Legal); Tweed, Sheila; Van Hooser, Steve; Viverito, John; Alfaro, Renee; Barto, Brian D.; Bishop, Larry; Costa, Cheryl; Desrochers, Jim; Haas, Merrill W.; Mahabir, Alisha; Rigby, John G.; Sevitz, Robert; Bailey, Susan; Boyd, Samantha; Braddy, Martha; Bruck, Sarah; Carnahan, Kathleen; Cooper, Tracy J. (EBS); Fitzgerald, Genia; Flores, Nony; Goode, Diane; Guinn, Linda R.; Heard, Marie; Hearn III, Ed B.; Heinitz, Mary J.; Hill, Robin; Jones, Tana; Korkmas, Deb; Mayer, Laurie; McNamara, Wyndel; Ogden, Mary; Panus, Stephanie; Perlingiere, Debra; Santos, Claudia; Young, Kay Subject: New Temp IDs Since our department has grown, we have realized the need to add 3 new temporary IDs. Following the instructions below, please add calendar access rights for EWS Legal Temp IDs 9, 10, and 11 (as show in blue below). While doing this, would you mind checking the other IDs as well to be sure they are listed. When logging in temporaries we have discovered that some access rights work with some temp IDs, but not all. Thank you! ================================ For Outlook users only! Since we have migrated to Outlook, we have not been able to give calendar/e-mail access to the temporaries filling in for our department. Apparently, the access rights we all had set up in Lotus Notes cannot be migrated to Outlook. Thus, we need all attorneys and specialists to give access rights to all the department Temporary IDs as soon as possible. You can control how much access you would like to give, and for what. For example, you could give full revision access to your calendar and read-only for your e-mail or access only to your calendar and no access to your e-mail. It's up to you. Please give access to the following IDs: EWS Legal Temp 1 EWS Legal Temp 2 EWS Legal Temp 3 EWS Legal Temp 4 EWS Legal Temp 5 EWS Legal Temp 6 Note: Do not use-Temp 7 is not designated for our temporaries. EWS Legal Temp 8 EWS Legal Temp 9 EWS Legal Temp 10 EWS Legal Temp 11 To set up access: 1. Right click on "Outlook Today" at the top of the folders list (if your folders list is not visible, click on "View" and then "Folder List") 2. Left Click on "Properties" at the bottom of the list that pops up 3. Left click on the "Permissions" tab 4. Left click on "Add". Type "EWS"-the address list will stop on our temp IDs. Left click on one of the Temp ID you are adding, left click on the "Add" button. Repeat for each ID. (Be careful not to add EWS Temp ID 7. This is not used for our temporaries.) Left Click "OK" 5. You should now be back in the "properties" box. Select the first ID you just added, hold down the "Shift" key, then left click all the other ID's. With all IDs now selected and not holding the Shift key down, click in the boxes which access you would like to allow the temporaries to have. (Note: Do not select anything that has "own" or "owner" in it as you are the owner.) Left Click on "Apply", then "OK". 6. Right click on your "Calendar" folder and repeat steps 2-5 above. 7. [Optional]. To give access to e-mail or any other folders you may have, right click on that folder and repeat steps 2-5 above. Regarding the Legal Temp IDs, these set-up instructions need to be completed only once. If your Assistant ever changes, these instructions will come in handy! Thank you for your time and patience.
