From: lmrig@worldnet.att.net
To:
Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2001 05:09:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: UtilityHQ.com - Your Source For Latest Jobs and Information for
 Electric Power Industry Professionals
? CHECK OUT UTILITYHQ.COM!! Dear Industry Professional: If we haven,t already had the pleasure, we would like to introduce you to our new web site, UtilityHQ.com! At Utility Headquarters, you can: ???????? Subscribe to a free weekly news e-Zine that,s tailored to your interests! ???????? Search through upcoming conferences! 10 listed! ???????? Search for industry reports, conference proceedings, directories, etc! ???????? Search for jobs in the electric utility industry! Over 30 listed! ?CHECK IT OUT NOW AT:www.utilityhq.com We have over 30 jobs listed on the site, waiting to be filled! These jobs are spread across the United States and are with companies such as Commonwealth Edison, New York Power Authority, Trigen Energy Corp., Conectiv, Northern California Power Agency and many more! ?CHECK THE JOBS OUT NOW AT: www.utilityhq.com/jobs.htm ?We have 10 different conferences in topics such as Ancillary Services, FERC Order 2000, Western Power Markets, Generation & Transmission, and more! ?CHECK THE CONFERENCES OUT NOW AT:www.utilityhq.com/conferences.htm If you have a job, conference, proceeding, directory, book, or industry report to post, please visit us! Because we are in a start-up phase, we have excellent rates! Lock in these excellent prices to post your upcoming events and job openings! ?CHECK THE RATES OUT NOW AT:www.utilityhq.com/rates.htm You can also advertise in our e-Zines for as little as $50/month, create a dedicated job site for as little as $250/month?or chose to place your company logo or banner ad on our website for as little as $333/month!? CHECK THE RATES OUT NOW AT: www.utilityhq.com/rates.htm UtilityHQ.com is a subsidiary of Electric Utility Consultants, Inc.? EUCI has served the electric utility industry for the past 14 years with timely and well-organized conferences. Because of this relationship with an established and well-reputed firm, UtilityHQ can leverage its position to provide your organization with a broad base of industry professionals. We send over 2,000 e-Zines a week to industry professionals and have a mailing list of over 30,000 industry professionals!We invite you to take a look at the refreshing new look of our site ) based on simplicity.? We don, t try and cram millions of ads and listings in one page ) our site is well organized and easy to navigate. Please visit our site and forward this e-mail to individuals in your organization who could benefit by using UtilityHQ.com! If you know of anyone who would like to receive the latest news about UtilityHQ.com or if you have received this message as a forward and would like to continue to receive similar messages, please click www.utilityhq.com/genmail.htm CHECK IT OUT NOW AT:www.utilityhq.com Regards, Amit Mrig UtilityHQ.com Tel: (303) 779-4141 Amrig@utilityhq.com
