From: osualum@orst.edu
To: bowlgame@pluto.sparklist.com
Date: Tue, 12 Dec 2000 11:43:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: OSU Events at Fiesta Bowl Announced
Oregon State University has sold its entire allotment of tickets for the January 1 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl! That,s great news for OSU, because it proves to the nation that our fans will go the distance to support the Beavers in a big-time bowl game. Not only will there be thousands of Oregon Staters in Tempe, but there will also be thousands of things to do. (Well, maybe not thousands of things to do, but there will definitely be a lot going on() In the hopes of helping you fill up your Arizona days and nights, the OSU Alumni Association has created a calendar of events covering everything from College Football,s Largest Party to educational Alumni Association events to the official pep rally. The Calendar is located here: http://alumni.orst.edu/bowlgame_events.html One of the events that you won,t want to miss is the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl Block Party on New Year,s Eve. Billed by USA Today as one of the top eight places in the nation to ring in the New Year, the Block Party will feature revelry and electrifying fireworks, an abundance of food and beverage vendors, as well as a carnival of thrilling rides for children and adults alike. Advance ticket purchase is strongly suggested. Tickets are just $15 and can be purchased from the OSU Alumni Association at (541) 737-2351. On the day of the game, you,ll definitely want to check out College Football, s Largest Party. In the spirit of traditional college football tailgaters, the party is sure to please football fans of all ages. Even more pleasing is that if you bought game tickets through the Athletic Ticket Office or are an OSU Official Bowl Tour participant, you can get into the party for free! If you got your game tickets from another source, you can buy party tickets at the gate for $15. You still need tickets to the game?!? There is still hope! Join the Alumni Association,s Orange and Black Club by noon on Friday, December 15, 2000 and become eligible for a drawing for two game tickets to the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl and two tickets to one of the OSU Alumni Association events (to be determined) in Tempe, Arizona! This is an incredible value for FREE to the Orange and Black Club winner! Call today, 866-416-8454! For more information on Alumni Association membership, click here: http://osu.orst.edu/dept/alumni/osuaa.html Don,t forget Fly your Flag Fridays! On each Friday until the Fiesta Bowl, fly your car flags and house flags, and wear your orange and black! --- You are currently subscribed to bowlgame as: mark.guzman@enron.com To unsubscribe send a blank email to leave-bowlgame-1408860L@pluto.sparklist.com
