From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all_ena_egm_eim@enron.com
Date: Fri, 9 Mar 2001 00:21:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: ENTOUCH NEWSLETTER
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS East Power Midwest Origination Beginning late 2000, East Power Marketing implemented a complete market coverage strategy. Since then, EPMI has begun to develop relationships with hundreds of small &mom & pop8 municipalities. Many of these munis had no prior contact with Enron. As a result, East Power has executed a valuable 30 MW energy call option term purchase from the Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska (MEAN) at a congested location. Enron Industrial Markets EIM has renamed Pulp, Paper & Lumber to Forest Products in order to fully encompass our multiple product offerings. East Power Development The Planning and Zoning Commission for Pompano Beach, FL approved ENA's rezoning request and site plan for the Pompano Beach Energy Center, a 510 megawatt peaking power plant. On the rezoning request, the vote was 6 to 1, and on the site plan, the vote was 7 to 0. The rezoning request will be forwarded to the Pompano Beach City Commission for their review. Additionally, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) has announced its intention to issue an air permit for the facility. Next steps include a DEP public hearing on Monday, March 26, and the first of two votes on the rezoning request before the Pompano Beach City Commission, which is scheduled for Tuesday, March 27. IN THE NEWS EWS Brown Bag Lunch Mark Your Lunch Calendars Now! The next one is scheduled for Thursday, March 15, 2001 featuring Ray Bowen. He is the COO of EIM and will be discussing Enron Industrial Markets. Open Forum Editorial in The San Francisco Chronicle by Kenneth Lay 3/1/01 What has happened in California over the past four years is not deregulation. It is misguided regulation. Deregulation does not mean eliminating customer choice and competition for most customers. Deregulation does not mean limiting new market entrants. Fewer than five percent of customers in California are served by competing suppliers. Deregulation does not mean creating a single central power pool from which all participants must buy and sell their wholesale power; the state Power Exchange effectively replaced three monopoly buyers with one monopoly buyer. Deregulation does not mean buying all of your commodity at the last minute, on the spot market, rather than planning ahead and purchasing most of the power under long-term contracts that lock in prices. The situation in California is the result of continued regulation, complicated by a series of natural and man-made factors. WELCOME New Hires EGM - Lowell Bezanis, Owen Zidar EIM - Eric Holzer, John Ovanessian ENA - Mecole Brown, Nita Garcia, Ambroshia Hunter, Nikole Jackson, Junichi Sugiura, Theresa Zucha, Cynthia Gonzalez, Scott Wilson, Kenton Schaefer, Emily Butler Transfers ENA - Joseph Hardy, Nancy Vu, Lloyd Miller, Jinsung Myung, Patrick Johnson, Jason Wolfe, Andrew Miles, Sara Shackleton EIM - Sherri Baldwin, Debbie Chance, Rob Saltiel EGM - Jody Crook, Neithard Foley, Juan Paysse, Bhavna Pandya, Courtney Campbell, Terri Denning NUGGETS & NOTES "It is on the high side of medium to high." --Tim Battaglia, Vice President/Steel Origination EIM (discussing the probability of a transaction closing). &I wanna see the phone glued to your ear!8 -- Ed Baughman, Vice President/East Power Mid Market ENA &REFERRALS, REFERRALS, REFERRALS! It pays to know good people." ) Ambroshia Hunter Perry/HR ENA You requested more info(. Proud parents Michelle Vitrella, PR coordinator, and husband David Vitrella, manager of trading, have named their baby girl Lily Ann. She was born on February 27, 2001. Learning at the Speed of Enron If you haven't had a chance to log on to www.investinme.enron.com, you're missing a fast and easy way to gain the information you need to get ahead and stay ahead. This new EWS training site combines everything you loved about Ernie with much, much more. Enron employees now have the ability to register for hundreds of classes on industry-related topics anywhere in the world. Don't have time to attend a classroom training? No problem, you can now use the web site to search for books, videos, CD ROM, and web-based training. All the learning you want, anytime, anywhere. Just go to www.investinme.enron.com and start building your future today! NEWS FROM THE GLOBAL FLASH Enron Wind Enron Wind has purchased the factory facilities of the Dutch company, Aerpac, Europe's second largest producer of wind turbine rotor blades. This move represents a significant step towards fulfilling Enron Wind's strategic objective of manufacturing high-quality and technically sophisticated rotor blades in-house. Enron Wind will be using its own moulds to produce the rotor blades. The acquisition of the Almelo-based factory facilities, which are only 60 kilometres from Enron Wind's facilities in Salzbergen, Germany, gives the company a convenient base for European wide distribution. Enron applies for Greek electricity trading license Enron, through its subsidiary Enron Power MEPE, has applied for an electricity supply license for Greece, for the 34% market opening on Feb 19th 2001. If the license application is successful, Enron will be allowed to approach customers consuming more than 100GWh up to a combined total peak capacity of 350MW. In total, 4 companies have applied for power trading licenses (Enel, ATEL and Cinergy also applied). LEGAL STUFF The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries. It is intended for internal use only and should not be disclosed.
