From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Berry
File:Berries (USDA ARS).jpg , blackberries are aggregate fruit, and strawberries are accessory fruit. ]] The word '''berry''' is used for many different kinds of small fruits that have many seeds and can be used as food. Some examples are raspberry, strawberry, sutberry, lingonberry and blueberry. When botany talk about ''berries'', they mean a simple fruit produced from a single gynoecium. They sometimes call this ''true berry'', to distinguish it from ''false berries''. By that statement of how words are used, grapes or tomatoes are true berries. The berry is the most common type of soft fruit in which the entire ovary wall gets to the right stage of development of the pericarp which can be taken as food. The flowers of these plants have an upper ovary with one or more carpels. The seeds are inside the soft body of the ovary. Berries are small, sweet, bright colored fruits. Due to this, they are able to bring more animals towards them and spread their seeds. == Types of berries == File: true.berries.jpg from right: grapes, persimmon, gooseberry , redcurrant (top). ]] Some fruits that are called ''berries'' in English language are not ''true berries'' by the use of words above. These include raspberry, strawberry, sutberry, blackberry, cranberry, and boysenberry. Some true berries do not have ''berry'' in their name. These include tomatoes, bananas, eggplants, guavas, pomegranates and chile pepper. Pumpkins, cucumbers, melons, orange (fruit) and lemons are also berries that have slightly different structure and may be called by different names (pepo for pumpkins, cucumbers, and melons, or hesperidium for oranges and lemons). Some fruits are "botanical berries", meaning that botany call them berries. But not all of these are the types of fruit that we usually call berries. Also, some of the fruits we usually call berries, are not "botanical berries". Tomato.PNG | A tomato is a "botanical berry" Kiwi (Actinidia chinensis) 1 Luc Viatour.jpg | A Kiwifruit is a berry. Norwegian blueberries.jpg | Wild Bilberry collected in Norway. == References == Category:Berries
