From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Government
A '''government''' is a group of people that have the Influence to rule in a territory, according to the administrative law. This territory may be a country, a state or province within a country, or a region. There are many types of government, such as democratic, parliamentary, presidential, federal or unitary. ==Works== *Governments make laws, rules and regulations, collect taxes and print money. *Governments have monopolies on the legal use of force. *Governments have systems of judiciary that list the acts or activities that are against the law and describe the punishments for breaking the law. *Governments have law enforcement forces to make sure people within their jurisdiction follow the laws. *Governments have diplomacy who communicate with the governments of other country by having meetings. Diplomats try to solve problems or disagreements between two countries, which can help countries to avoid war, make commercial agreements, and exchange cultural or social experiences and knowledge. *Governments have a military force such as an army that protects the country from enemy countries, terrorists and other major threats that attack or which can be used to attack and invade other countries. *Governments have security guards to protect the leader of a country. *The head of state of a government may have advisors and Minister (government) for various departments. Together they are called the administration. == Types of governments == Plato listed five kinds of government in ''The Republic:'' === Democracy === The most common type of government in the Western world is called democracy. In democracies, people in a country can vote during elections for representatives or political parties that they prefer. The people in democracies can elect representatives who will sit on legislatures such as the Parliament or Congress. political party are organizations of people with similar ideas about how a country or region should be governed. Different political parties have different ideas about how the government should handle different problems. Democracy is the government of the people, by the people and for the people. However, many countries have forms of democracy which limit freedom of choice by the voters. One of the most common ways is to limit which parties can stand for parliament, or limit the parties' access to mass media such as television. Another way is to rig (unfairly manipulate or interfere with) the voting system by removing votes from opposition voters and substituting votes for the party in power. Few countries are textbook (classic, paradigmatic) democracies, and the differences between them has been much studied.Hoppe, Hans-Hermann. 2001. ''Democracy: the god that failed''. Rutgers, N.J: Transaction. [http://archive.lewrockwell.com/hoppe/hoppe4.html] Benoist, Alain de 2011. ''The problem of democracy''. Arktos Media. Graham, Gordon 2002. ''The case against the democratic state: an essay in cultural criticism''. Imprint Academic. === Monarchy === A monarchy is a government ruled by a king, Queen regnant, emperor or empress who inherits their position from their family, which is often called the "royal family." There are two types of monarchies: absolute monarchies and constitutional monarchies. In an absolute monarchy, the ruler has no limits on their wishes or powers. In a constitutional monarchy a ruler's powers are limited by a document called a constitution. In modern times, monarchies still exist in Great Britain and the Commonwealth of Nations, the Netherlands, Spain, Japan, Saudi Arabia, and Thailand, along with several other countries. A monarch may have one of several titles: King or Queen, Empress or Empress, or Emir. === Aristocracy === An aristocracy is a government run by the people of a ruling class, usually people who come from wealthy families with a particular set of values, or people who come from a particular place. A person who rules in an aristocracy is an aristocrat. Aristocracy is different from nobility, in that nobility means that one bloodline would rule, whereas an aristocracy would mean that a few or many bloodlines would rule, or that rulers be chosen in a different manner. === Dictatorship === Under a dictatorship, the government is run by one person who has all the power over the people in a country. A dictatorship may also be called one-man rule or autocracy. Plato called it Tyrant. Originally, the Roman Republic made dictators to lead during time of war. The Roman dictator (and Greek tyrants) were not always cruel or unkind, but they did hold power all by themselves, rather than sharing power with the people. Roman dictators only held power for a short period of time. In modern times, a dictator's rule is not stopped by any laws, constitutions, or other social and political institutions, and can last many years or even decades. After leaving the Spanish Empire, many countries in Latin America were dictatorships. World War II was partly a war between dictators, and later new countries in Asia and Africa also were ruled by dictators. === Oligarchy === An oligarchy is a government ruled by a small group of powerful people. These people may spread power equally or not equally. More so a different version of a monarchy, where everyone makes decision together instead of one person making them all or telling people what to do, such as in a Dictatorship. An oligarchy is different from a true democracy because very few people are given the chance to change things. An oligarchy does not have to be hereditary or passed down from father to son. An oligarchy does not have one clear ruler, but several powerful people. Some past examples of oligarchy are the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Apartheid South Africa. A fictional example is the dystopian society of ''Oceania'' in the book Nineteen Eighty-Four. Some critics of representative democracy think of the United States as an oligarchy. Robert Michel's Iron Law of Oligarchy says all democratic organizations become oligarchies. Power Dynamics & Social Hierarchy Britannica|url=https://www.britannica.com/topic/iron-law-of-oligarchy|access-date=2024-05-27|website=www.britannica.com|language=en}} This view is shared by anarchism and some libertarianism. An oligarchy may have a leader in the ruling group. == The history and the theory of government == The simplest idea of government is those who rule over wikt:people and land. This may be as small as a community or village or as big as a continent (like Australia). The people who rule can allow others to own land. It is a wikt:deed by government that gives this right in the way that laws describe. Some think they have the right to hold land without government permission. This view is called libertarianism. Others think they can do without government. This view is called anarchism. Almost every place on Earth is connected to one and only one government. Places without government are where people follow traditions instead of government rules, small border disputed areas and the continent of Antarctica, because almost no people live there. For every other place on Earth there is a government that claims 'sovereign control' over it. The word "sovereign" is old and means "control by a King" (sovereign). Governments of villages, city, county and other community are subordinate to the government of the state or province where they exist, and then to that of the country. It is from Kings and feudalism that modern governments and nation states came. The Capital (city) of a country, for instance, is where the King kept his assets. From this we get the modern idea of capital (economics) in economics. A government may wikt:regulation trade as well as to rule over land. Governments also control people and decide things about what morality to accept or punish. In many countries, there are strict rules about sexual intercourse and drugs which are part of law and offenders are punished for disobeying them. Tax is how government is paid for in most countries. People who buy, sales, import, invest, own a house or land, or earn money are made to pay some of the money to a government. There are many theories of how to organize government better. These are called theories of civics. Many people think leaders must be elected by some kind of democracy. That way, they can be replaced at election. Many governments are not a democracy but other forms in which only a few people have power. There are many theories of how to run a government better, and keep people from hurting each other. These theories are part of politics. ==Related pages== * Constitution * Justice system * Law * Legal rights * Local government * Political economy * State * Big Government == References == Category:Basic English 850 words Category:Government
