From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Propaganda
File:How does propaganda change our beliefs.webm) ]] File:"WHEN YOU RIDE ALONE YOU RIDE WITH HITLER". "JOIN A CAR-SHARING CLUB TODAY". - NARA - 516143.jpg.]] File:Harry R. Hopps, Destroy this mad brute Enlist - U.S. Army, 03216u edit.jpg ]] File:The Secret Soviet Bunker (14360593542).jpg ''Ne Boltai'' ("Don't chatter") poster warns citizens not to give away secrets.]] '''Propaganda''' is a form of communication to distribute information. It is usually biased. The information is designed to make people feel a certain way or to believe a certain thing. The information is often political. Often, propaganda is confusing and unfair, which makes it hard to tell whether the information is true or false. Propaganda tends to make disputes last longer and be more difficult to resolve. It can take the form of posters, Television advertisements, and radio announcements. The word 'propaganda' comes from Latin language. At first, it meant 'ideas to be spread around'. But in the World War I, it came to mean political ideas that are supposed to be misleading. Propaganda is like advertising in some ways. For example, it uses the mass media to spread its ideas. But advertising is usually trying Sales something, whereas propaganda is about ideas. It is often political, and used by states or political parties, not private companies. == Uses == Propaganda is often used during wars. There it can be very useful. Sometimes it keeps the people of a country happy telling them that their country is fighting well and telling them how important it is that the enemy is defeated. Sometimes it tries to make people hate the enemy. The information could tell people that the enemy is evil or make them seem not human. Sometimes a government gives propaganda to the enemy telling them that the war is going badly for them and that they should stop fighting. When a country is not at war, propaganda can still be used. The government may use propaganda to change what people think about a political situation. A group may try to change the way people act towards an Issue (debate). Propaganda under some countries, like dictatorships, is used along with censorship. While propaganda tries to give people false ideas, censorship forces the ones who disagree with propaganda to keep quiet. Then the propaganda can say everything, because nobody can question it in public. Propaganda is also used to win people by tricking them. Some people say that cults use propaganda to get people to join them. ''Examples of propaganda:'' * United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland propaganda against Germany in the World War I. * Nazi Germany propaganda against Poland to start the World War II, see Attack on Sender Gleiwitz * Propaganda through mass media (print, radio and movies) was used by the Soviet Union from beginning to end. Some great artists, like Sergei Eisenstein and El Lissitzky, helped them do it. Many others, such as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, did not. == History == Propaganda has been used in every known Civilization. It was used by Rameses II on his Monument in Ancient Egypt; it was used by Ancient Greek orators; it was used by Julius Caesar, and all Roman Emperors. The word itself is formed from ''propagate'', meaning to multiply. The Catholic Church ''Sacra Congregatio de Propaganda Fide'' carried propaganda much further.Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith This committee, founded in 1622 by Pope Gregory XV, had action branches in most Europe countries. These were the local branches of the Inquisition, which sought out heretics. With torture and the threat of death by Death by burning, they forced Heresy to recant (to publicly withdraw their beliefs). The objective was to remove all challenges to the supremacy of the Church in matters of belief. The 1578 handbook for inquisitors noted "Punishment does not take place primarily and for the correction and good of the person punished, but for the public good in order that others may become Terrorism and weaned away from the Evil they would commit".''Directorium Inquisitorum'', edition of 1578, Book 3, pg. 137, column 1. Online in the [http://dlxs2.library.cornell.edu/cgi/t/text/pageviewer-idx?c=witch;cc=witch;q1=terre%2A;rgn=full%20text;idno=wit045;didno=wit045;view=image;seq=00000563 Cornell University Collection]; retrieved 2008-05-16. == References == Category:Politics Category:Communication Category:Psychology Category:Propaganda
