From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Queen
File:Queen Victoria by Bassano.jpg, queen of United Kingdom from 1837 to 1901.]] A '''queen''' is a woman who rules a country which is a monarchy. She may either get this position because of inheritance or because she has married a king. A '''Queen Regnant''' is a queen who is the monarch of a country. She usually comes to power after the death of the previous king or queen, who is her parent. A country that is ruled by a queen is called a kingdom – the same as a country ruled by a king. Elizabeth II was a Queen Regnant. A '''Queen Consort''' is a queen who is not a monarch, but is married to one, such as a King. Queen Camilla is a Queen Consort. However, the husband of a queen is not always called a king. For example, King George VI of the United Kingdom had a wife, who was called Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon. He had no sons, so he was followed by his elder daughter, who was also called Elizabeth. She became Queen Elizabeth II. She was married to Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh until his death on April 9, 2021; but when she became Queen he did not become King. This is because the title "King Consort" does not exist. ==Queen regnant== File:Queen Elizabeth II official portrait for 1959 tour (retouched) (cropped) (3-to-4 aspect ratio).jpg A ''queen regnant'' is head of state, and has all the powers of a sovereign. A queen regnant does not keep the title of queen if she ''abdicates'' (resigns). No queen has ever abdicated in the history of the United Kingdom, but three abdications have occurred in the Kingdom of the Netherlands: *Wilhelmina of the Netherlands abdicated in 1948 and became Princess Wilhelmina. Her daughter became Juliana of the Netherlands. *Queen Juliana abdicated and became Princess Juliana. *Beatrix of the Netherlands abdicated in 2013 and became Princess Beatrix. == Queen consort == A ''queen consort'' is the wife of a king. She is not the head of state, and does not have any powers unless they are given by the King or another law. The last King of Britain (George VI) had a wife (Elizabeth) who was called Queen Elizabeth. He had no sons, so he was followed by his elder daughter. She is also called Elizabeth and became Queen Elizabeth II. She was married to the late Duke of Edinburgh; but when she became Queen he did not become King. == Queen dowager == A ''queen dowager'' is the widow of a king. A queen consort usually keeps the title of Queen after her husband's death, for example *Alexandra of Denmark, widow of King Edward VII of the United Kingdom *Mary of Teck, widow of King George V of the United Kingdom and *Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, widow of King George VI of the United Kingdom, she was given the title Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother because her daughter is also called Elizabeth II. Category:Kings and queens
