From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Communism
'''Communism''' is an idea in politics based on equality, that seeks a world without different social class groups. They say that things like factories, tools and farms (the relations of production) are owned by the bourgeoisie. Communists want the workers to take power and the means of production.[http://www.marxists.org/archive/bukharin/works/1920/abc/03.htm ''The ABC of Communism''], Nikoli Bukharin, 1920, Section 20 They believe this will bring about the end of all money and private property.[http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1847/11/prin-com.htm ''Principles of Communism''], Frederick Engels, 1847, Section 18. "Finally, when all capital, all production, all exchange have been brought together in the hands of the nation, private property will disappear of its own accord, money will become superfluous, and production will so expand and man so change that society will be able to slough off whatever of its old economic habits may remain." This is the opposite to capitalism where there is money, and a state and class structure. In capitalism, there is a working class (people who don't own the means of production, also called the proletariat) and the owning class (people who own the means of production, sometimes called the ruling class or the bourgeoisie). Communist thinkers believe a communist world can happen if the working class take away the power of the bourgeoisie and start to control the means of production. Country that officially follow forms of communism include Vietnam, China, Cuba and Laos, which are Marxism–Leninism, and North Korea, which follows Juche. The most famous communist thinkers were Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels; other prominent thinkers include Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Leon Trotsky, and Mao Zedong. == History == File:Karl Marx 001.jpg In 1848, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels wrote ''The Communist Manifesto''. It was a short book with the basic ideas of communism. Most socialists and communists today still use this book to help them better and more accurately understand politics and economics. Many non-communists read it too, even if they do not agree with everything in it. Karl Marx said that for society to change into a communist way of living, there would have to be a period of change. During this period, the workers would govern society. This is called a dictatorship of the proletariat. Marx was very interested in the Paris Commune of 1870, when the workers of Paris ran the city after the Prussian Army defeated the French Army. He thought that this practical experience was more important than the Theory views of the various Extremism groups. Many groups and individuals liked Marx's ideas. By the beginning of the Twentieth Century, there was a worldwide socialist movement called Social democracy. It was influenced by his ideas. They said that the workers in different countries had more in common with each other than the workers had in common with the bosses within their own countries. In 1917, Vladimir Lenin and Leon Trotsky led a Russian group called the Bolsheviks in the October Revolution. They got rid of the temporary government of Russia, which was formed after the February Revolution against the Tsar (Emperor). They established the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, also called the Soviet Union. File:Engels1862.jpg The Soviet Union was the first country claiming to have established a workers' state. During the 20th century, many people tried to establish workers' states. In the late 1940s, China also Chinese Civil War and created a new government with Mao Zedong as its leader. In 1959, the island of Cuba had Cuban Revolution and created a new government with Fidel Castro as its leader. At one time, there were many such countries, and it seemed as though communism would overtake capitalism. However, communist party governments didn't use democracy. Because of this, the governments became separated from the people, making communism difficult. This also led to disagreements and splits between countries. File:Sesel map of socialist states.PNG By the 1960s, one third of the world had overthrown capitalism and were trying to build communism. Most of these countries followed the model of the Soviet Union. Some followed the model of China. The other two thirds of the world still lived in capitalism, and this led to a worldwide divide between capitalist countries and communist countries. This was called the "Cold War" because it was not fought with weapons or Army, but competing ideas. However, this could have turned into a large war. During the 1980s, the United States and the Soviet Union were Competition to have the biggest army and having the most dangerous weapons. This was called the "Arms Race". President Ronald Reagan called the Soviet Union the "Evil empire", because they had invaded the countries of Eastern Europe and forced them to have communist governments. Since 1989, when the Berlin Wall was torn down, most countries that used to be communist have returned to capitalism. Communism now has much less influence around the world. In 1991, the History of the Soviet Union (1985-1991). However, around a fifth of the world's people still live in states controlled by a communist party. Most of these people are in China. The other countries include Cuba, Vietnam, Laos, and North Korea. There are also communist movements in Latin America and South Africa. == Disputes == Many people have written their own ideas about communism. Vladimir Lenin of Russia thought that there had to be a group of hard-working revolutionaries (called a vanguard) to lead a socialist revolution worldwide and create a communist society everywhere. Leon Trotsky, also from Russia, argued that socialism had to be international, and it was not important to make it happen first in Russia. He also did not like Joseph Stalin, who became the leader of the USSR after Lenin's death in 1924. Trotsky was Exile by Stalin in 1928, and then Assassination. This scared many people, and lots of communists argued about whether this was right and whose ideas should be followed. Mao Zedong of China thought that other classes would be important to the revolution in China and other Developing country because the working classes in these countries were small. Mao's ideas on communism are usually called Maoism or Mao Zedong Thought. After Stalin's death in 1953, Mao saw himself as the leader of worldwide communism until he died in 1976. Today the Chinese government is still ruled by the Communist Party of China, but they actually have what is called a mixed economy. They have borrowed many things from capitalism. The government in China today does not follow Maoism. Some Revolution in other countries like India and Nepal still like his ideas and are trying to use them in their own countries. == Term usage == The word "communism" is not a very specific description of left-wing political organizations. Many political parties calling themselves "communist" may actually be more reformist (supportive of reforms and slow change instead of revolution) than some parties calling themselves "socialists". Many communist parties in Latin America have lost many members because these parties do different things than what they promised once they get into power. In Chile, between 1970 and 1973, under the left-wing Coalition (groups of parties) of Popular Unity, led by Salvador Allende, the Communist Party of Chile was to the right of the Socialist Party of Chile. This means it was more reformist than the socialist party. Many communist parties will use a reformist strategy. They say working-class people are not organized enough to make big changes to their societies. They put forward candidates that will be elected democratically. Once communists become elected to parliament or the Senate, then they will fight for the working class. This will allow working-class people to change their capitalist society into a socialist one. == Symbols and culture == File:Masthead of the first issue of Combat, Organe Officiel du Parti Communiste d'Haiti.jpg in Haiti from the 1940s with hammer and sickle]] The color red is a symbol of communism around the world. A red five-pointed star sometimes also stands for communism. The hammer and sickle is a well-known symbol of communism. It was on the flags of many communist countries, like the Soviet Union (see top of article). Some communists also like to use pictures of famous communists from history, such as Karl Marx, Vladimir Lenin, and Mao Zedong, as symbols of the whole philosophy of communism. A song called ''The Internationale'' is the international song of communism. It has the same music everywhere, but the words to the song are translated into many languages. The Russian version was the national anthem of the Soviet Union from 1922 until 1944. The sickle in the Soviet Union's flag shows the struggle of the Peasant-farmers. The hammer in the flag represents the struggle for the workers. Both of them crossing shows their support for each other. There is also a special kind of art and architecture found in many communist and former communist countries. Painting done in the style of socialist realism are often done for propaganda to show a perfect version of a country's people and political leader. Art done in the socialist realism style, such as Theatre, movies, novels, and paintings show hard-working, happy, and well-fed factory workers and farmers. Movie Play (theatre) and Novel in this style often tell stories about workers or Soldier who sacrifice themselves for the good of their country. Paintings often showed heroic portraits of the leader, or landscapes showing huge fields of wheat. Stalinist architecture was supposed to represent the power and glory of the state and its political leader. Some non-communists also enjoy this kind of art. ==Related pages== * Socialism * Anti-capitalism * Stalinism * Karl Marx * Marxism * Trotskyism * Capitalism * Leninism * Stalinism * Maoism * Castroism * Juche * National Bolshevism == References == == Other websites == * Category:Communism
