From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Christopher Columbus
File:Portrait of a Man, Said to be Christopher Columbus.jpg '''Christopher Columbus''' (1451-1506) was an Italian trader, explorer, and Navigation. The consensus view is that he was born in Genoa in the year 1451, the son of a weaver named Domenico Colombo and a seamstress named Susanna Fontanarossa. Many alternative theories on his origins exist, but are dismissed by the majority of scholars. "Christopher Columbus" is the English language version of Columbus's name. His real name in Italian language was '''Cristoforo Colombo.''' In 1492 Columbus landed on an island of the The Bahamas, the first European to do so. His initial goal was to find a quicker route to Asia from Europe. He is known as the person who discovered the New World because his voyage started the era of Colonialism in the Americas. This was an important moment in European history. While Leif Erikson was the first European to land on the soils of Americas it was not well documented and did not lead to the later contact between Europe and the New World. The effects was the bringing over of livestock, disease, crops and slaves. When the Spanish people learned that Columbus had found a New World, many other people, called conquistadors, went there too. This led to the Spanish colonization of the Americas. Columbus died on 20 May 1506, in Valladolid, Spain. == Discovery of America == Columbus was the first European person to discover America, not including Leif Erikson. == Voyage in 1492 == Many people in Western Europe wanted to find a shorter way to get to Asia. Columbus thought he could get to Asia by sailing west. He did not know about the Western Hemisphere, so he did not realize it would block him from getting to Asia. However, Columbus did not have enough money to pay for this voyage on his own. After defeating the Emirate of Granada, the rulers of Spain, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile, agreed to pay for the voyage. He promised to bring back gold and spices for them. File:Sebastien Destremau (11).jpg In August 1492, Columbus and his sailors left Spain in three ships: the ''Santa Maria'' (the Holy Mary), the ''Pinta (ship)'' (the Painted), and the ''Santa Clara'' (nicknamed the ''Niña'': the Little Girl).Columbus Day. The History Channel Website. Retrieved January 28, 2013.http://www.history.com/topics/columbus-day The three ships were very small. Historians think that the largest ship, the ''Santa María'', was only about long, and about 16 to 19feet (4.8 to 5.8metres) wide. Columbus's other ships were even smaller. Historians think they were about long. ===Voyage=== On October 12, 1492, after sailing for about four months, Columbus landed on a small island in the Bahamas. The natives called it Guanahani; Columbus renamed it San Salvador Island ("Holy Savior"). He met Arawak people and Taíno Native Americans who lived on the island. They were friendly and peaceful towards Columbus and his crew. Not knowing where he was, and thinking that he had reached Asia, the "Indies," he called them "Indians." He wikt:claim their land as Spain's."Christopher Columbus." Explorers & Discoverers of the World. Gale, 1993. Gale Biography In Context. Web. February 5, 2013. Columbus then sailed to what is now Cuba, then to Hispaniola. On Hispaniola, Columbus built a fort. This was one of the first European military bases in the Western Hemisphere. He called it Navidad (Spanish for "Christmas"). He left thirty-nine crew members there, and ordered them to find and store the gold. ===Treatment of the native people=== On the day he landed in the Bahamas, Columbus wrote about the Arawaks and Taíno: }} Columbus noticed that some of the Arawaks had gold earrings. He took some of them as prisoners and ordered them to lead him to the gold. However, they could not. According to Encyclopædia Britannica: File:Santa-Maria.jpg|wikt:replica of the ''Santa Maria'' File:Landing of Columbus (2).jpg|Painting of Columbus landing in the New World File:Columbus landing on Hispaniola.JPG|Drawing of Columbus landing on Hispaniola File:Columbus1.PNG|Route of Columbus's first voyage File:2.- DCVIII.0001.tif|Letter from Columbus (1493) ==Second voyage== On September 24, 1493, Columbus left Spain with enough ships, supplies, and men to invasion and colonization in the New World. He had 17 ships and 1,200 men. These men included soldiers and farmers. There were also priests, whose job was to religious conversion the natives to Christianity. On this voyage, Columbus explored some of the islands of the Lesser Antilles. He also sailed around most of Hispaniola and explored the sides of Jamaica and Cuba he had not seen on his first voyage. Then he went back to the Navidad fort. He found the fort burned down. Eleven of the 37 soldiers Columbus left at the fort were burial there. The rest had disappeared. Historians think this happened because of disease and fights with the Arawak people. ===Treatment of the native people=== While Columbus was away from Navidad exploring Jamaica and Cuba, his soldiers stopped working on building a new fort and farms. They made the Arawaks give them food. They also theft things from the Arawaks and raped Arawak women. When Columbus found out about this, He orderd them to be hung, Some Arawak caciques saw Columbus as an ally of their enemy and attacked him. However, Spain had many weapons that the Arawaks had never seen, including steel swords, pikes, crossbows, dogs, and horses. This made it much easier for Spain to win fights against the Arawaks. Columbus had many rebellions on his hands, he fought with many native chiefs who saw him as an invader and an ally with gracangari the chief Columbus was Frends with. They were quckily put to route by the Europeans inventions There was not much gold on the parts of the island Columbus took over. After a while he ordered the search for gold to be given up. ==Third voyage== Columbus went on another voyage in 1498. John II of Portugal of Portugal had said there was a continent to the south-west of the Cape Verde islands. On his third voyage, Columbus wanted to find this continent.Morison, Samuel Eliot (1963). ''Journals & Other Documents on the Life & Voyages of Christopher Columbus.'' New York: The Heritage Press. p. 262. ASIN B002KR8WPQ. Before the voyage, Queen Isabella reminded Columbus that he should treat all of the native people well and make them into Christians. On this voyage, Columbus sent three ships straight to the West Indies (the Caribbean). He led another three ships: first to two Portuguese islands, then to the Canary Islands, then Cape Verde. From Cape Verde, they sailed to the northern coast of South America and landed in Trinidad. He also explored part of South America and the islands now called Tobago and Grenada. On August 19, 1498, Columbus returned to Hispaniola. He found that many of the Spanish settlers there were unhappy. They thought there would be more gold in the New World. Some of them had rebellion while he was gone. Columbus had five of the rebellion's leaders hanging. He also tried to make the rest of the settlers happy by giving them land in Hispaniola. However, the settlers kept sending wikt:complaint to Spain. In 1499, Queen Isabella sent a man named Francisco de Bobadilla to Hispaniola. She gave him the power to do whatever he thought he should do. When he arrived in 1500, the first thing he did was to have Columbus arrested and sent back to Spain in chains. ===Treatment of native people=== When he was trying to make Spanish settlers happy, Columbus started the ''Encomienda'' system in Hispaniola. Under this system, Columbus would give a piece of land in Hispaniola to an individual Spanish settler. Sometimes, he would give away a whole native village. Any natives that lived in that area had to work for that Spanish settler. Natives had lived on this land for centuries. Columbus was giving their land away, ''and'' then forcing them to work on that land. == Later life == On August 23, 1500 Columbus was arrested in Hispañola, now called Santo Domingo, for cruelty to natives and especially Spaniards. He was sent to Spain in chains in October 1500. He was released on December 25, 1500, and taken to court. Columbus had important friends, and the King restored his freedom. He was not made governor again, but eventually he was allowed to lead another voyage. Columbus died of heart failure and arthritis in Valladolid, Spain, at the possible age of 54. == Personal life == Columbus's relatives said that Columbus was born in Genoa, Italy. Today, no historian can say for sure where Columbus was born. Most experts think the best evidence says he was born in Genoa. Other historians think Columbus was born somewhere else, like Spain or Portugal. Some think he was originally a Jew who religious conversion to Christianity. In 1477, Columbus Marriage Felipa Moniz Perestrelo. She was from a semi-Nobility family with connections to sailing. She died around 1479 or 1480 while Childbirth to their son, Diego. In 1485, while in Córdoba Province (Spain), Spain, Columbus met Beatriz Enríquez de Trasierra. They lived together for a while. They had one child named Fernando. == Columbus's goals == Columbus had a few different goals for his journeys to the New World. First, he believed he could find a shorter and easier route to Asia, which made things Europe did not. He believed he could find a shorter route to China. Other people had called this belief wikt:absurd. Columbus wanted to prove these people wrong. 1522.}} Second, Columbus wanted to find gold. Gold was the main kind of money used in Columbus's times. In his letter to Spain's King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella, Columbus wrote: "Gold is most excellent; gold is wikt:treasure, and [the person] who [has] it does all he wishes to in this world." This means that someone with gold can do anything he wants to do. Many historians believe that Columbus wanted to become a powerful person and in order to become powerful, he needed to find gold. ==After Columbus== When the Spanish learned about the New World, many conquistadors, or conquerors, went there. This led to the Spanish colonization of the Americas. The Spanish conquistadors first settled on the islands of Hispaniola (now the Dominican Republic and Haiti), Cuba, and Puerto Rico. They grabbed as much gold as they could. The Spanish also brought priests and forced the Native Americans to convert to Christianity. == Legacy == In the United States, Columbus Day is a holiday that celebrates Columbus's arrival in the New World on October 12, 1492. The World's Columbian Exposition, which happened in 1893 in Chicago, Illinois, was held to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Columbus visiting the Americas. Between 1492 and 1930, over 60 million Europeans migrated to the Americas. The peak of this migration was in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The mass migration of Europeans to the New World was one of the largest transfers of population in history. == References == Category:1451 births Category:1506 deaths Category:Deaths from heart failure Category:Disease-related deaths in Spain Category:Italian explorers Category:People from Genoa
