From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Bronze Age
File:Metallurgical diffusion.png and Asia Minor. The darkest areas are the oldest]] File:Europe late bronze age.png File:Urnenfelder panoply.png The '''Bronze Age''' is a period in Prehistory when people made tools from bronze, an alloy (mixture) of Metal.Childe V.G. 1930. ''The bronze age''. New York: Macmillan. The Copper Age began to develop into the Bronze Age when smiths learned that their copper became stronger if they added a little tin. Bronze is a mixture of mainly copper and tin (usually nine parts copper to one part tin). Materials like wood and stone were also much used, but bronze was better for cutting and chopping, and was easy to shape. Bronze is harder than copper, so it made stronger tools. The Bronze Age did not happen at the same time everywhere, because different groups of people began to use bronze at different times. In Western Europe, the Bronze Age lasted from about 2000BC until 800BC. In the Middle East, it started about a thousand years earlier. For example, bronze was first used in Mesopotamia around 3300BC.Pernicka E. ''et al'' 2003. Early Bronze Age metallurgy in the northeast Aegean. In: Wagner G.A., Pernicka E. and Uerpmann H-P. (eds) ''Troia and the Troad: scientific approaches, natural science in archaeology''. Berlin; London : Springer, 143–172. Archaeologists think that people became more organised in the Bronze Age because making metal tools was difficult and needed certain skills. The people who had these new skills would have been important. The new metal tools were bought, sold, or Trade across larger distances. Later, when iron tools spread, the Bronze Age ended and the Iron Age started. Iron replaced bronze partly because iron ore (rocks that might contain iron) is much more common than tin ore. Writing was invented around the beginning of the Bronze Age in some areas. People soon began writing about events and administrative matters. == Agriculture == File:Tomb of Nakht (2).jpg By the Bronze Age, humans were farmers and wild food was no longer a main part of their diet. The title "inventors of agriculture" might go to the Sumerians, starting c. 5500BC. Farming allows more people in an area than can be supported by hunting and gathering. Crops can be stored for off-season use, or to sell or barter. Farmers could feed people to do other things than agriculture. This was a crucial factor in the rise of full-time armies. Sumerian agriculture allowed them to win battles and land. This made them early empire builders. Not long after, the Ancient Egypt, farming in the fertile Nile, increased their population. There were now enough warriors to conquer more land, tripling the Sumerian empire in area. In Sumer, barley was the primary crop; wheat, flax, Date Palm, apples, plums, vegetables and grapes were grown as well. Mesopotamian agriculture was both supported and limited by flooding of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Floods came in late spring or early summer from snow melting from the Anatolian mountains. Sheep, wolves, cows and Domestic goats were Domestication, kept mainly for meat, milk, butter and cheese. Ur, a large town that covered about 50acres (20hectares), kept 10,000 animals; 3,000 were slaughtered every year. The city's population of 6,000 included a labour force of 2,500, cultivated 3,000acres (12km²) of land. The labor force included storehouse recorders, work foremen, overseers, and harvest supervisors as well as laborers. The land was plowed by teams of oxen pulling light unwheeled plows and grain was harvested with sickle. Wagons had solid wheels covered by leather tires kept in position by copper nails and were drawn by oxen. As many as four animals could pull a wagon at one time. The horse was domesticated in Ukraine around 4000BC, and was in use by the Sumerians around 2000BC. File:Gefuding Gui.jpg.]] == Related pages == * Bronze Age collapse ==References== Category:Ancient history Category:Periods and ages in history Category:Prehistory Category:Bronze Age
