From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Iron Age
File:Iron sickle, torc and adze.JPG The '''Iron Age''' is the period after the Bronze Age in Europe, Asia, and parts of Africa. Iron production took place in Anatolia at least as early as 1200 BC, with some evidence pointing to even earlier dates.Akanuma H. 2005. The significance of the composition of excavated iron fragments taken from Stratum III at the site of Kaman-Kalehöyük, Turkey. ''Anatolian Archaeological Studies'' '''14''': 147–158. In the Mesopotamian states of Sumer, Akkadian Empire and Assyria, the use of iron reaches far back, to perhaps 3000 BC.Chisholm H. 1910. In ''The Encyclopædia Britannica''. One of the earliest Smelting iron Artifact (culture) ever found is a dagger with an iron blade found in a Hattians tomb in Anatolia, dating from 2500 BC.Cowen, Richard 1999. ''The Age of Iron'' Chapter 5 in a series of essays on geology, history, and people prepared for a course of the University of California at Davis. [http://mygeologypage.ucdavis.edu/cowen/~GEL115/115CH5.html Online version] . The widespread use of iron weapons which replaced bronze weapons rapidly spread throughout the Near East (North Africa, southwest Asia) by the beginning of the 1st millennium BC. Before this time, people used Bronze Age or flint Tool and pottery. They Farmer, and lived in communities. Most of Europe, Africa and Asia reached the Iron Age by 500 BC. It is a period of prehistory because, though iron and steel continue to be important even today, the "Iron Age" is defined as ending when people began to write their history. Iron ore is easy to find, and some iron is a Native metal but iron is hard to make into tools. It Melting at a higher temperature than bronze. When blacksmiths learned how to make iron tools, they were able to make many of them. With more and better tools, people could do more. For example, more people could own a metal plough. They could farm their fields better and grow more Crop. Some people invented coins to help buy and sell their crops and their iron tools. Bronze weapons and armor were no match for those made of iron, so many peoples who did not have iron were defeated by those who did. Soldier used iron shields and helmets in battle. == References == Category:Ancient history Category:Periods and ages in history Category:Prehistory
