From:
To:
Date:
Subject: William the Conqueror
| death_place = Palace of Westminster, London, England | burial_place = Westminster Abbey, London, England | issue = | father = Robert I, Duke of Normandy | mother = Herleva de Falaise }} '''William the Conqueror''' (1028 9 September 1087), also known as '''William I of England''', was a Normandy statesman and warlord. He was the first Normans English monarchs (1066–1087). He was also the Duke of Normandy from 1035 to his death. Every monarch of England and later of Great Britain and of the United Kingdom is directly descended from William. At the Battle of Hastings, William defeated Harold Godwinson, the last Anglo-Saxon king of England. The event is shown on the Bayeux Tapestry. William changed the course of both Norman and English history. He and Harold fought over the English throne. Harold was killed at the Battle of Hastings in 1066. ==Early life and minority == William was the son of Robert I, Duke of Normandy, by his concubine Herleva.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 15 He was born in Falaise, Normandy, in 1027 or 1028.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), pp. 53-54 William became the duke of Normandy after his father went on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem in 1035 and did not return. He made his noblemen swear to make his young son William their duke if he was killed.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror'' (New York; Perkins Book Co., 1902), p. 13 However William's :wikt:minority rule of Normandy did not start well. Some Normans did not want a boy as their duke. Robert II Archbishop of Rouen, Archbishop of Rouen, was a powerful man in Normandy and protected William.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 34 King Henry I of France also approved of William.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 38 In 1035, William's father Robert died. Without his support, Norman nobles began fighting among themselves. Some wanted William out of the way and tried to kill him.Paul Hilliam, ''William the Conqueror: The First Norman King of England'' (New York: Rosen Central, 2005), p. 18 One of William's servants was killed in the very room in which William slept. Two William's other protectors died during this time. Normandy was in complete disorder.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 41 In 1042, William held a church council in Normandy.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror'' (New York; Perkins Book Co., 1902), p. 19 There, the Church made a new law, the Truce of God, to help stop all private wars. There could be no fighting on feast days or fasting days. No fighting was allowed from Thursday night to Monday morning. The punishment for breaking the truce was excommunication.Paul Hilliam, ''William the Conqueror: The First Norman King of England'' (New York: Rosen Central, 2005), p. 19 William probably reached the age of majority in about 1044.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), pp. 60-61 He no longer needed tutors and could now rule on his own. ==Duke of Normandy== ===Val-es-Dunes=== The private wars continued into 1046. William's rule depended on the loyalty of his :wikt:viscount.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 47 By the fall of 1046, many of the families in lower Normandy began plotting to replace William as duke. Guy of Burgundy, William's cousin, was sent to William's court in hopes he would do well there.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 65 William gave Guy castles at Brionne and Vernon, but Guy wasn't happy with that and decided thar he should rule Normandy himself. He became the leader of what was by now an open :wikt:revolt. Two of William's viscounts joined Guy. William realised the serious threat and asked King Henry for help. The French king came right away and brought a large army. The combined armies of Duke William and King Henry met the rebels at Val-es-Dunes. The rebels were defeated, and Guy fled to his castle at Brionne. William kept the castle cut off from food or supplies until Guy gave up in 1049. The duke forgave his cousin, but Guy soon returned to Burgundy. William's :wikt:victory at Val-es-Dunes gave him some :wikt:control of Normandy.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 66 A church council met in October 1047 near the battlefield to consider a new Truce of God.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 51 No private wars would be allowed from Wednesday evening to Monday morning. Also no such fighting was allowed during Advent, Lent, Easter and Pentecost. That followed other such truces in place elsewhere in France. However, the king and the duke were excluded from this truce. They were allowed to wage war during those times to keep the peace.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 52 William's peace in Normandy was now supported by the Church.François Neveux, ''The Normans; The Conquests that Changed the Face of Europe'', trans. Howard Curtis (London: Constable & Robinson Ltd., 2008), p. 118 ===Rise to power=== File:Statue d'Dgilliaume lé Contchéthant à Falaise 02.jpg made by Louis Rochet in 1851.}}]] The battle of Val-es-Dunes was the start of William's rise to power. As the king had stepped in, it was mostly his victory. However, William's nobles now began to see him as a leader. He could now think about taking a wife. Shortly before 1049, William decided to marry Matilda of Flanders,David C. Douglas, ''William The Conqueror'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1964), p. 76 who was the daughter of Baldwin V of Flanders and Adela of France, who was the daughter of King Robert II of France. Before it could take place, Pope Leo IX refused to allow the marriage. He did not give a reason, but they were cousins. Sometime between 1050 and 1052, they married anyway. However, it was only in 1059 that another :wikt:pope, Nicholas II, lifted the ban on their marriage. While William was building his power in Normandy, things were changing around him. King Henry had supported him, and William had helped the king against the Count of Anjou.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 69 Around 1052, Geoffrey of Anjou and the king suddenly made peace. Just as suddenly, the king turned on William. At the same time, two of William's uncles, Archbishop Mauger and Count William of Arques, rebelled against their nephew. William fought his uncle at the castle at Arques. King Henry now led a large force into Normandy to help Count William of Arques, but Duke William met him in battle and won. Without the king's army to help, the castle had to give up.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 70 Duke William sent his two uncles away from Normandy. In 1054, the king again entered Normandy with a large :wikt:hostile force. He split his army into two and led the southern forces himself.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror'' (New York; Perkins Book Co., 1902), p. 59 His brother Odo led the second force east of the Seine River. This time, William had all of Normandy supporting him abd had everything that could be used as food removed ahead of the French armies. That would mae it difficult tfor the French o keep their soldiers fed. William also split his soldiers into two armies. William's forces watched the king's armies look for any chance to attack. When Odo's forces reached the town of Mortimer, they found plenty of food and drink, which caused his forces to relax and enjoy themselves. The :wikt:commander of William's second army caught them by surprise and killed most of Odo's soldiers.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror'' (New York; Perkins Book Co., 1902), p. 60 Those who survived were taken prisoner and held for ransom. When the king got the news that his brother's army had been destroyed, his army was struck with panic. The king and his men left Normandy as fast as they could.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror'' (New York; Perkins Book Co., 1902), p. 61 King Henry I agreed to a peace that lasted three years but broke the peace in 1058 and invaded Normandy again. Just as before. William kept the king's army close but waited for the best time to strike. That came as the French army was crossing the Dives River at Varaville.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror'' (New York; Perkins Book Co., 1902), p. 64 The king had already crossed the river and watched as his army was destroyed as it entered the water. He took what remained of his army and left Normandy for good. The king died a short time later. The new king, his young son Phillip, was under the care of William's father-in-law, Baldwin V.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror'' (New York; Perkins Book Co., 1902), pp. 65-66 France was no longer against Normandy, which allowed William the freedom to expand. === Normandy and England === In 1002, King Ethelred the Unready England married Emma, the sister of Duke Richard II of Normandy.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 160 The :wikt:alliance formed by this marriage had far-reaching effects. When Canute came to the throne of England in 1016, he took Emma as his wife. Her two sons by her former marriage fled to Normandy for their own safety. Edward the Confessor, the older son, stayed in Normandy for many years at the :wikt:court of the dukes. The last duke who protected him there was his cousin William. Edward became King of England in 1042. Edward made William his heir in 1052.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 169 Harold Godwinson was in Normandy in 1065 and :wikt:promised Duke William to support him as :wikt:successor to the English throne.''The Normans in Europe'', trans. & ed. Elisabeth van Houts (Manchester, UK: Manchester University Press, 2000), p. 104 On 5 January 1066, Edward the king died, but Harold did not respect his oaths.François Neveux, ''The Normans; The Conquests that Changed the Face of Europe'', trans. Howard Curtis (London: Constable & Robinson Ltd., 2008), p. 130 The next day, when the :wikt:funeral occurred, Harold was crowned King of England. The story was that on his :wikt:deathbed, the king had changed his mind and promised Harold the throne. Harold was not :wikt:royalty himself and had no legal claim on the throne. For weeks, William must have known that Edward was dying.David C. Douglas 1964. ''William the Conqueror: the Norman impact upon England''. Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, p. 181. But the news of the king's death and of Harold's taking the throne must have been a surprise to others. ==Norman invasion of England== ===Prelude=== William began his plans for invasion almost as soon as he received news of the events in England.K.S.B. Keats-Rohan, 'Poppa of Bayeux and Her Family', ''The American Genealogist'', Vol. 72 No.4 (July/October 1997), p. 159 He called a meeting of his greatest men.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 184 William made plans to gather a large army from all over France.François Neveux, The Normans; The Conquests that Changed the Face of Europe, trans. Howard Curtis (London: Constable & Robinson Ltd., 2008), p. 132 His :wikt:influence and :wikt:wealth meant he could mount a large :wikt:campaign. His first task was to build a :wikt:fleet of :wikt:ships to carry his army across the English Channel. Then, he started gathering an army. His :wikt:friendship with Brittany, France, and Flanders meant that he did not have to rely only on his own army. He hired and paid soldiers from many parts of Europe. William asked for and got the support of the pope. who gave him a banner to carry into battle.John Malam, ''The Battle of Hastings'' (Slough: Cherrytree, 2007), p. 15 While William was planning his :wikt:invasion, Harald Hardrada of Norway was planning the same. Harold knew that both would be coming but kept his ships and forces in the southern England, where William might land.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 191 William may have had as many as 1,000 ships in his invasion fleet.Elisabeth M.C. van Houts, 'The Ship List of William the Conqueror', ''Anglo-Norman Studies X'', ed. R. Allen Brown (Woodbridge, The Boydell Press, 1988), p. 166 They had favourable winds to leave Normandy on the night of 27 September 1066.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 396 William's ship, the Mora (ship), was a gift of his wife, Matilda. It led the fleet to the landing at Pevensey the next morning. As soon as he landed, William got news of Harold's victory over Harald at Stamford Bridge, East Riding of Yorkshire, in northern England.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 89 Harold also received news that William had landed at Pevensey and so came south as quickly as he could. Harold rested at London, England for a few days before he took his army to meet William and his French forces. ===Battle of Hastings=== File:Battle of Hastings-battleplan.png.}}]] King Harold took up a position on an east-west :wikt:ridge north of HastingsDavid Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 92 that was called Senlay Hill.Fiona Reynoldson; Clive Griffiths; et al., ''Life in Medieval Times'' (Oxford: Heinemann Educational, 2002), p. 30 He found the Norman army marching up the valley in front of the Englsih. Harold had more soldiers than William, but they were tired from the 60 mi (96 km) :wikt:forced march from London. William formed his lines at the base of the hill facing the shield wall of the English. He sent his archers halfway up the slope to attack the English. He sent his :wikt:mounted knights to the left and the right to find any weak spots. At first, William's knights tried to break through the shield wall with the weight of their horses,David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 93 but they were attacking uphill and so could not gain any speed. Harold's front line simply stood fast and fended off all attacks. William's army began to fall back with rumours of his death. William removed his helmet to let his men see that he was still alive. William saw that many of Harold's men followed his knights back down the hill. That made William use a trick that he had learned years earlier. He turned suddenly and charged the oncoming English foot soldiers, who had no chance against mounted knights. The :wikt:tactic worked at least two more times during the battle and made Harold's shield wall weaker.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 201 William then did something new. His attacks by knights and soldiers had been separate :wikt:movements, but he now used them together. His archers had not :wikt:succeeded against the shield wall, but he had them shoot high into the air so that the arrows came down on top of the English. That may be when Harold was killed by an arrow through his eye. The shield wall finally broke, and the Normans were on top of them. By :wikt:nightfall, the English were dead in the field or being hunted down by William's troops. William called his troops back, and they all spent the night camped on the battlefield. ===Aftermath=== The battle was won, but the English still had smaller armies that had not joined King Harold at Hastings.Frank Stenton, ''Anglo-Saxon England'', Third Edition (Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 1971), p. 596 They had lost their king but were still trying to reorganise. William rested his army for five days before he moved towards London. His :wikt:line of march took him through several towns that he either captured or destroyed. When William reached London, the English resisted for a short time but then :wikt:surrendered. On Christmas in 1066, William was crowned King of England.François Neveux, ''The Normans; The Conquests that Changed the Face of Europe'', trans. Howard Curtis (London: Constable & Robinson Ltd., 2008), p. 138 His victory at Hastings gave Duke William the nickname that he has been known by ever since: 'William the :wikt:conqueror'.William W Lace, ''The Battle of Hastings'' (San Diego: Lucent Books, 1996), p. 28 ==King of England== ===Early reign=== William chose to be Coronation at Christmas.Paul Hilliam, ''William the Conqueror: first Norman King of England'' (New York: Rosen Central, 2005), p. 61 That was partly because he thought the English would be less likely to :wikt:riot on the high :wikt:feast day. It was also a good choice because he believed that it was God's will for him to be king. King William spent a few months in England.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 99 He then returned to Normandy and left England in the hands of two capable men: his half-brother Odo, Earl of Kent, who was the Bishop of Bayeux, and William FitzOsbern, 1st Earl of Hereford. Odo was made the Earl of Kent while FitzOsbern became the earl of Hereford.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 100 The remaining three English earls were left in place. When William sailed back to Normandy with him, many of his followers were with him. Many of his soldiers had been paid and he wished to keep track of others: in particular these English Archbishop Stigand and Edgar the Atheling. William also brought his remaining three English earls: Edwin, Morcar and Waltheof. That way, none of them could start a revolt while he was away. William had his :wikt:duties at home to take care of. Also, many of his soldiers needed to come back to keep the :wikt:duchy safe. When William returned to London in December 1067, he began to find out what :wikt:problems had come up while he was gone.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 101 Hertfordshire had been raided by Mercia. Also, Exeter had not accepted the rule of the new king. William raised money from all parts of England that would pay. He also called out English wikt:levies. Exeter surrendered after one of its :wikt:hostages was blinded. After he subdued Devon and Cornwall, all seemed quiet. At Winchester, William sent for Matilda, who was crowned Queen of England there at Pentecost. By summer, more :wikt:rebellions had broken out.Frank Stenton, ''Anglo-Saxon England'', Third Edition (Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 1971), p. 601 At the same time, others were fleeing England. Edgar Atheling, along with his mother and sisters, left for Scotland, where they were welcomed. In northern England, strong groups against the Normans were gathering around York. Earl Edwin and his brother Morcar left William's court to join the rebels in the north. William then built a castle at Warwick, which caused the earls and others to give in to William, and other castles followed. William then entered York, where others came to him and submitted. He then negotiated with the king of Scots to prevent any invasions of England from the north, but his campaign in the north was not as effective as he thought. In 1069, a second :wikt:uprising developed into a war. The men whom William had left in charge were killed. A small Norman force was holding out in York when William came to its aid.Frank Stenton, ''Anglo-Saxon England'', Third Edition (Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 1971), p. 602 After building another castle, William left Earl William FitzOsbern in charge. For the next five months, the north was quiet, but its leaders had sent word to King Swein of Denmark to offer him the crown if he could defeat the Normans. Swein sent a Danish fleet to England. In the summer of 1069, the Danish fleet appeared off the :wikt:coast of Kent, moved up the coast towards the north and raided as it went.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 104 William and his army were in the south to guard against any incursions. Finally, the fleet joined the English rebels on the banks of the River Humber. All of the remaining English earls deserted William and joined the combined English-Danish forces. They moved against the Norman garrison at York and killed all but a few women and children. William Malet, a Norman who had lived in England before 1066, was also spared. ===Harrying of the north=== William's northern army was wiped out, and York was in ruins. At the same time, smaller rebellions were breaking out in Wales and southwest England.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 105 William knew that he was in trouble. He began by calling in all his commanders and troops to combine his forces. The king knew that with a smaller army, he had to deal with one group of rebels at a time. He sent William FitzOsbern and Brian of Brittany to deal with Exeter. William himself fought an army moving in from the east. In both cases, the Norman armies were victorious. He now moved on the northern armies that had destroyed York, but he was unable to get any farther north than Pontefract. After trying for several weeksm William bribed the Danish fleet to withdraw from York for the winter. It agreed and returned to the mouth of the Humber to winter there. William now moved up to York and rebuilt the castles there. He then had his forces spread out and destroy everything useful for the English and the Danish to feed themselves. The result was widespread famine, and the people of the area either left or starved to death. ThT was William's :wikt:infamous :wikt:harrying of the North. The result was the surrender of his English earls and most of the rebels in England. The few remaining groups were quickly crushed by William's army.Frank Stenton, ''Anglo-Saxon England'', Third Edition (Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 1971), pp. 604-05 However, one group proved more :wikt:stubborn at Chester, and after a forced march during Winter, William surprised it before it was ready.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 220 After it surrendered, William he built two more castles there and returned to Winchester. ===Ruling England and Normandy=== William never again laid waste to a county as he did to Yorkshire. He had dealt with the main threats to his rule but some had only been solved in part.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), pp. 221-22 The Danish fleet came back in 1070 this time led by King Swen. They joined a small group of rebels on the Isle of Ely led by Hereward the Wake. Again William bribed the Danes to leave and then dealt with the rebels. Hereward was never heard from again.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), pp. 222 William now ruled both England and Normandy.François Neveux, ''The Normans: the conquests that changed the face of Europe'', trans. Howard Curtis. London: Constable & Robinson 2008, p. 140. He found thar he had to be present to keep things under control. When he was in Normandy, trouble often broke out in England. When in England, Normandy was being ruled by his wife, Matilda, but Fulk IV, Count of Anjou, the new Count of Anjou, had taken Maine (province) from William's control. William had to take it back in 1073.François Neveux, ''The Normans: the conquests that changed the face of Europe'', trans. Howard Curtis. London: Constable & Robinson, 2008, p. 141. In 1082, William arrested his half-brother Odo, Bishop of Bayeux and Earl of Kent.Edward Augustus Freeman, ''William the Conqueror''. New York; Perkins Book, 1902, pp. 261-62. The reasons are uncertain, but Odo was trying to raise an army to march on Rome, as he planned was to become the next pope. William put him on trial on the Isle of Wight. In addition, Odo was accused of trying to raise an army among William's soldiers. As William pointed out, they were needed to defend England. Odo protested that not even a king could judge him since he was a bishop; only the pope could. William replied that he was seizing not a bishop but his earl, who had been left in charge by Odo during his absence. Odo was imprisoned in Normandy for the rest of his life. In 1083, Queen Matilda died and was buried in Caen.François Neveux, ''The Normans: the conquests that changed the face of Europe''. trans. Howard Curtis. London: Constable & Robinson 2008, p. 143. She been very close with her husband but disagreed over their son Robert Curthose. Robert had repeatedly rebelled against his father but kept in contact with his mother. That caused a rift between them. Philip I of France had found it difficult for his vassal to become a king like himself and so resented William. Not strong enough to fight William himself Philip helped him when Robert rebelled against his fathe. In the summer of 1085, William learned that Canute IV of Denmark was getting a fleet ready to sail against England.David Crouch, ''The Normans: the history of a dynasty''. London; New York: Hambledon Continuum 2007, p. 120. William came back to England in the autumn with many soldiers. He had to pay and feed them at great cost. It may have been then that he realised he had no records of what was owed him as king. He did not know if he was collecting all of the taxes that were due. ===Domesday Book=== File:Pictures of English History Plate XII - Domesday Book.jpg At his Christmas court at Gloucester in 1085, William asked for a great survey to be taken in every part of England.''Domesday Book; A complete Translation'', eds. Ann Williams; G.H. Martin (London; New York: Penguin Books, 2003), p. vii The king wanted to know how many people lived in his kingdom.François Neveux, ''The Normans; The Conquests that Changed the Face of Europe'', trans. Howard Curtis (London: Constable & Robinson Ltd., 2008), p. 142 He wanted to know the size of every property, what each was worth and how much income it brought in. No such survey had ever been made in England before. It was unique in its details and in its contribution to English history. The Domesday Book was the first public record in England. The text of the book fit into two volumes. The first covered 31 counties and was called Great Domesday because of its size. The second covered the counties of Essex, Norfolk, and Suffolk and was called Little Domesday. The facts were recorded by several panels made up of bishops and earls. Each panel collected information on several counties. William was presented with a large collection of written records on 1 August 1086.David Crouch, ''The Normans; The History of a Dynasty'' (London; New York: Hambledon Continuum, 2007), p. 121 That became the Domesday Vook but would be bookbinding into books only almost another century later. ===Last years=== William died when he was in Rouen, France, from injuries that he had received from falling off a horse he owned. In August 1086, William summoned his tenants-in-chief and landowning men of any account to Old Sarum, where they swore allegiance to him and to be faithful against all other men. Ths event is known as the '''Oath of Salisbury.''' It was demanded at a time of crisis when William was facing revolt and invasion. There seems little doubt that it was intended as a practical assurance and reminder, rather than as a constitutional statement. ==Family== William and his wife Matilda of Flanders had at least nine children.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), p. 393 * Robert Curthose (–1134), Duke of Normandy succeeded his father.David C. Douglas, ''William the Conqueror; The Norman Impact upon England'' (Berkeley; Los Angeles, University of California Press, 1964), pp. 394-95 * Richard, Duke of Bernay (–). * William II of England (–1100). Succeeded his father as King of England. * Henry I of England (1068–1135). Succeeded his brother William as King of England. * Agatha; promised in marriage to Alfonso VI of León and Castile but died before the wedding. * Adeliza. * Cecily (–1127), :wikt:abbess of Holy Trinity, Caen. * Adela (died 1137), married Stephen I, Count of Blois. * Constance (died 1090), married Alan IV, Duke of Brittany. * Matilda. ==Notes== ==References== Category:1020s births Category:1087 deaths Category:Kings and Queens of England Category:Dukes and duchesses of Normandy Category:Anglo-Normans Category:Accidental deaths Category:11th century in England Category:People from Calvados
