From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Edmonton
File:Edmonton Montage 2020.jpg '''Edmonton''' is the capital, and second largest city of the Canadian province of Alberta. Edmonton is the 5th largest city in Canada. In 2021, there were about 1,102,656 people in the city proper, and about 1,420,000 people in the Edmonton metropolitan area. However, Calgary has a slightly higher population. The city sits in central Alberta, in the prairie part of the province, and makes up part of the Edmonton-Calgary corridor. Starting as a trading post on the Saskatchewan River. Edmonton turned into a city mostly over the last 100 years. Edmonton has of one of the world's largest shopping Mall, the West Edmonton Mall. It has over 800 stores, a hotel, an indoor water park, an indoor theme park, an ice skating rink, movie theatres, Restaurant, Bar, and other things to see. Many people visit it. Edmonton also has more sun than all other cities in Canada, but other cities are warmer. Winter temperatures often are below -20 Celsius. It is common for it be even colder (below -30 °C) for a few days in January or February. However, summers can be hotter than 30 °C. The sun does not set until after 11 p.m. in June. The city is also well known for its festivals. There are many popular events in both summer and winter such as Heritage Days, the Folk Festival, and the Fringe. Edmonton has many interesting places to visit like the Francis Winspear Centre for Music, the Valley Zoo, [http://www.fortedmontonpark.ca Fort Edmonton Park], the Muttart Conservatory, and Telus World of Science. Edmonton is known as the city of champions since it is home to the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League and the Edmonton Elks of the Canadian Football League. The Edmonton Oilers have five Stanley Cup Championships,and the Elks have 23 Western Division Championships, and 13 Grey Cup Championships. The Edmonton tornado, the second-deadliest tornado in Canada, struck the east side of the city on July 31, 1987. Category:Edmonton
