From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Dreyfus Affair
Image:J’accuse.jpg's letter ''J'Accuse'' to criticizing the Race (sociology) motivated false conviction of Alfred Dreyfus]]File:Alfred Dreyfus (1859-1935) - photo originale.jpg of treason in the Dreyfus Affair.]] The '''Dreyfus affair''' (1894‒1906) was one of the biggest Scandal in History of France. It involved Alfred Dreyfus, a Jews officer in the French Army. Dreyfus was accused of Espionage for the German Empire, and was Conviction of treason. While Dreyfus was in prison, his brother and a high-ranking Army officer proved that another soldier was the spy. However, the Army refused to free Dreyfus. Finally, in 1899, the President of the French Republic Pardon him, and in 1906 Dreyfus was allowed back into the French Army. ==History== ===Accusations=== In 1894, Dreyfus was accused of being a German spy and committing crimes against France. People thought he wrote letters to the Germans telling them French Army secrets. Dreyfus was convicted of treason. He was Sentence (law) to spend the rest of his life on Devil's Island. This was a penal colony (a prison island) in French Guiana. ===Exoneration=== However, not everybody believed Dreyfus was guilty. While he was in prison, his brother Mathieu and a high-ranking officer called Picquart proved that another soldier, Major Esterhazy, was guilty. However, the army did not want to admit that it had been wrong. They refused to free Dreyfus. In 1898, Émile Zola published the famous letter to denounce the army coverup that led to Dreyfus' false conviction. Zola was found guilty of Defamation the army and sentenced to imprisonment, but fled to England. He remained there until amnesty was granted. Meanwhile, the Catholic-dominated Far-right politics claimed that a "Jewish Freemasonry conspiracy" was trying to destroy France by discrediting its army. Finally, the evidence that Dreyfus was innocent became so strong that the government had to demand a new trial. At the new trial, the army again found Dreyfus guilty. The President of France, who did not want an Innocence man to suffer any more, pardoned Dreyfus in 1899, and he was released. Seven years later, he was officially declared innocent, and allowed back into the army. ==Aftermath== The affair Schism France. Many people believed Dreyfus really was a Espionage. In many cases, these people Antisemitism and believed that Dreyfus was a Crime just because he was a Jew. They also believed that a Jew could not be a good Frenchman (these beliefs are called antisemitism). Others thought that the army could not be questioned. On the other side, many people believed that Dreyfus was innocent and should not be imprisoned. Some feared that Dreyfus's enemies were also enemies of France. Meanwhile, the French military did not acknowledge that Dreyfus was innocent until 1995.Gregory Moore (2002): ''Nietzsche, Biology and Metaphor'' p. 181 The impact of the Dreyfus Affair was far-reaching. Allegedly, it convinced Theodor Herzl (modern Zionism's founder) that Jews and Europeans were not compatible, and that a Jewish state was needed in the Land of Israel. Herzl later published the book ''Der Judenstaat'' (The Jewish State) and convened the first World Zionist Congress in Basel, Switzerland in 1897. ==Related pages== * Antisemitism in Europe * Anti-Judaism and antisemitism * ''The Protocols of the Elders of Zion'' ==References== Category:1894 Category:1906 Category:1890s Category:1900s Category:Racism Category:Antisemitism Category:20th century Category:Discrimination Category:Judaism in France Category:Antisemitism in Europe Category:19th century in France Category:20th century in France Category:French military people
