From:
To:
Date:
Subject: X-Men
File:X symbol from X-Men logo.svg The '''X-Men''', are a team of fictional characters and superheroes who were born with special Mutant (Marvel) powers, making them different from regular humans. The X-Men fictional character are owned by Marvel Comics, which publishes comic books featuring them as well as many other superheroes. The comic book was one of the first to combine social issues and social commentary into a superhero story, set in a world where people with Mutation abilities are hated by those born without them. This is similar to acts of ableism seen throughout history. Unlike "some" mutants, the X-Men try to be good and show tolerance toward humans and other mutants. The idea behind the superheroes were inspired by the African-American equality supporters like Malcolm X and Martin Luther King. == Characters == The X-Men team lineup has varied throughout the years and splintered into several other newer teams. The original team lineup as created by writer Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, were Cyclops (character), Jean Grey, Beast (comics), Warren Worthington III, and Iceman (Marvel Comics) as well as Professor X. The leader and mentor of the X-Men is Professor X, who is more commonly known as "Professor X" and has mental powers. He wants to gain civil rights for mutants in the way that Martin Luther King Jr. did for African Americans; through peace. Later issues brought fan favorites and frequent members including Cable (character), Colossus (character), Gambit (Marvel Comics), Nightcrawler (comics), Polaris (Marvel Comics), Betsy Braddock, Rogue (Marvel Comics), Storm (Marvel Comics) and Wolverine (character). Some of the X-Men's enemies include Magneto (Marvel Comics), Mystique (character), Sabretooth (character), Toad (Marvel Comics), Juggernaut (character), Mister Sinister, Mystique (character) and Apocalypse (character). Magneto and Mystique eventually became X-Men. He wants to gain civil rights for mutants in the forceful style of Malcolm X.Popular Culture, Geopolitics, and Identity - Page 114, Jason Dittmer - 2010 == In other media == The X-Men characters have since been featured in various comic book series, Movie, toys, animation, and much more. ==References== Category:Marvel Comics superheroes Category:Marvel Comics adapted into movies
