From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Color blindness
File:US Flag color blind.png, and also those with different types of color blindness]] '''Color blindness'''another term is '''color vision deficiency'''. makes people not unable to tell the difference between certain colors. In very rare cases, they may not see colors at all. Most color blindness is heritable, usually as simple Mendelian inheritance. Sometimes, however it is the result of damage to the eyes, nerves, or the brain that can be caused by coming into contact with certain chemicals. Most color blindness is wikt:permanent, but some conditions can lead to wikt:temporary color blindness. During certain kinds of migraine, people can be unable to tell the difference between certain colors. There is no treatment cure for permanent color blindness. Males are much more likely to have color blindness than females. Between 5% and 8% of males but less than 1% of females are color blind. People usually think of color blindness as a disability. However, people who are color blind have one wikt:advantage in that they are sometimes better at seeing through some types of camouflage. ==History== In 1798, the England chemist John Dalton published the first science article about color blindness after he found out that he was color blind.Dalton J, 1798. "Extraordinary facts relating to the vision of colours: with observations" in ''Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester'' '''5''' 28-45 That causes the condition to be sometimes called ''daltonism''. As of 2009, the word ''daltonism'' is used only for the type of color blindness called #Red/green color blindness. ==Seeing color== There are three steps in the process of telling the difference between colors: #Light hits specialized nerve in the eye, which are called receptors. Some of them are stimulus and create an electricity Signal (biology). #The signals move along nerves to special parts of the brain. #The parts of the brain interpret the signals, which are changed into an image. The image is then carefully looked at to separate different Physical body, to see shapes and sometimes colors, and to link them to other kinds of information. === How the human eye sees colors === File:Cone-fundamentals-with-srgb-spectrum.svgs of light. They are often called "blue" (S), "green" (M), and "red" (L), but the "green" and the "red" cone cells actually see many of the same colors.]] Inside the human eye is a part called the retina, which receives the images that the eye sees. It sends the images to the brain. The retina has two types of cells: rod cells and cone cells. They work in different types of light. *Rod cells receive the images that the eye sees when the light is dim, such as at night or in a dark room. *Cone cells receive the images that the eye sees in normal daylight or in bright light. There are three types of cone cells. Each type has a different chemical photopsin and reacts to a different spectrum of light. One type is specially sensitive to short wavelengths. Another is sensitive to medium wavelengths. The third is sensitive to long wavelengths. These wavelengths cover much of the Light. Each color is "seen" as a result of how much each of the receptors is stimulated. === How the brain works out the colors === Parts of the thalamus and the visual cortex in the brain are involved in ''seeing'', also seeing colors. Color blindness can therefore also result if these areas of the brain, the optic nerve or the retina have been wikt:damage. These types of color blindness happen because of an accident. They are not inherited. Inherited forms of color blindness affect the retina only.In cerebral achromatopsia, a person cannot perceive colors even though the eyes are capable of distinguishing them. This is usually not considered as true color blindness. That way it is possible that only a part of the visual field is affected by color blindness, but in the rest, there is no color blindness. Some types of color blindness, but not ''inherited'' color blindness, can be wikt:cure. == Causes of color blindness == There are several different problems that can cause color blindness. *If a person's eye has no cone cells, then they cannot see any color at all. They can only see shades of dark and light. *There are three types of cone cells in the human eye. If there are two types, a person will have a hard time to tell certain colors apart. If there is only one type, a person will not see color at all. *Sometimes cone cells change. This means that they no longer react to those wavelengths they should. A person will need ''more'' of a certain color to see this color. They see colors differently, and may not be able to tell certain colors apart. Most of these people do not know they are color blind, as they have little difficulty telling colors apart in most cases. *There may be nothing wrong with the eye, but the nerves that transport the information or the area in the brain that interprets it may be damaged. This means that the signal is interpreted the wrong way. The damage may be permanent, or it may be temporary. Certain conditions of the brain, like a migraine can change the way people see colors. ==Different types of color blindness== ===Total color blindness=== Total color blindness is very wikt:rare. People who suffer from it can only see in black, gray and white. They can perceive only differences in ''brightness'' and do not see ''color''. This is called ''monochromacy''.Byrne A, Hilbert D. [http://tigger.uic.edu/~hilbert/Glossary.html "A Glossary of Color Science."] Originally published in ''Readings on Color, Volume 2: The Science of Color.'' (MIT Press, 1997). Accessed November 7, 2006. There are two main types of total color blindness: # ''Rod monochromacy'' (''achromatopsia''): The retina has no cone cells. This makes it difficult to see even lights of a normal level; this means that people who suffer from it are almost blindness. It occurs almost only on the island of Pingelap, a part of the Pohnpei state in the Federated States of Micronesia. There it is called ''maskun'': about one person in 12 of the population has it. The island was hit by a storm in the 18th century. Very few men survived the storm. One of them carried a gene for ''rod monochromacy''. Today, several hundred people live on the island, about 30% have this gene. # ''Cone monochromacy'': The retina has both rods and cones, but only one type kind of cone. People who suffer from this will be able to see patterns well, in normal daylight, but they will not see hues. === Red/green color blindness === There are two kinds of red-green color blindness: protanopia or deuteranopia. Deuteranopia is the most common form of color blindness; between five and ten percent of males suffer from it. It is called Daltonism because John Dalton discovered it. Those affected have trouble telling the difference between red and green. As seen by protanopes (people suffering from protanopia), red is darkened. Most often, this is because they lack the receptors for long (protanopia) or medium (deuteranopia)-length light waves or because these receptors have changed their sensitivity. === Blue/yellow color blindness === Although the name is blue-yellow color blindness (tritanopia), people affected by this type of color blindness can usually tell the difference between blue and yellow. Instead they cannot tell the difference between blue and green, and also yellow and violet. It is different from the other types of color blindness because it is not linked to sex. It is equally possible for males or females to develop blue-yellow color blindness. It is caused by having few or no cones in the retina which can sense short wavelength light. === Other causes of color blindness === Sometimes, people do not have problems seeing color, but their brain has trouble "telling" the color, and interprets it wrongly. It is also possible that only certain parts of the eye have color blindness; people may become color blind because of other diseases, but after the disease goes away, see normally again. This seems to be the case with certain forms of migraine. == How color blindness is inherited == Males have one X and one Y chromosome; females have two X chromosomes. Many of the genes involved in making color vision work are on the X chromosome: they are sex linked. For this reason, men are more often affected by color blindness than women. The "color blind" gene allows non-color blind people to see the difference between red and green. The gene is located on the X chromosome. This means that a male will be color blind if the single X he inheritance from his mother contains the color blind version of the "color blind" gene. A female will inherit color blindness only if she inherits two X chromosomes containing wikt:defect (Mutation) color gene alleles. In other words, a female needs to inherit "color blind" genes from both parents in order to be color blind. == Testing someone for color blindness == Image:Ishihara 9.png The Ishihara plate test has been in use since 1917. Each plate has an image with dots of different size and color. People will then ''see'' different images (most often numbers). Those with certain types of color blindness will see different numbers from those not affected by color blindness. Because many young children have not learned numbers yet, other tests have been developed. They use symbols, like a Square (geometry), a circle or a car instead of numbers. == Design changes == A color code is when there is much information in the color of certain item. Such codes cannot be understood easily by those who are color blind. For this reason, color should not be used alone to give information. Good graphic design avoids using color coding or color differences alone to give information. This does not only help color blind people, but also normally sighted people. Cascading Style Sheets can be used on web pages. They allow to give a different color wikt:scheme for color blind people. Certain color scheme generators help graphic designers see color schemes as eight types of color blind people see them.[http://colorschemedesigner.com/ Color Scheme Designer]. For an example of a map that could present a significant problem to a color blind reader, see [https://www.nytimes.com/imagepages/2007/01/29/science/20070130_BEAR_GRAPHIC.html this graphic] from a New York Times article. The typical red-green color blind reader will have a lot of difficulty telling the green sections from the orange ones. This makes the graphic unreadable. Color blindness is very sensitive to changes in material. A red-green color blind person may be unable to see the difference between colors on a map printed on paper. The same map on a computer screen or television may appear normally. In addition, some color blind people find it easier to tell the difference between colors on wikt:artificial materials, such as plastic or in acrylic paints, than on natural materials, such as paper or wood. Thirdly, for some color blind people, color can only be wikt:distinguish if there is enough color: thin lines might appear black, but a thicker line of the same color can be seen in the correct color. File:Not-Aus Betätiger.jpges such as this one have to follow very specific design rules. These rules include what colors to use.]] In certain cases when it is important to understand information very quickly, the visual system may drop the colors, and only work in shades of gray. This is important to know when designing the user interface for objects that need to be used in an emergency situation, like emergency brakes, or emergency telephones. Because color blind people may not see the difference between colors such as red and green, some countries, such as Romania have refused to give them Driver's licenses. In Romania, people have started to change the laws so that color blind people will also be able to drive legally. In the United Kingdom, electricity wires in houses used to be red, black and green. They were changed to brown, blue and green/yellow to help color blind people see the difference between the "live" and "earth" wires. == What color blindness is not == Image:Assorted Red and Green Apples (deuteranope view).jpg Many people do not understand color blindness. People who are color blind never swap the colors they are blind to. They may have trouble telling two colors from one another. That way they may have a problem finding the right kind of apple in the supermarket. The image in this section shows in the top half how red and green apples look to a person with normal vision, and then in the lower half the way they look to a person with red-green color blindness. The apples on the left are ''Royal Gala'' apples; they are red in color. The apples on the right are ''Granny Smiths''; they are green. To someone with red-green blindness, the apples look like they are almost the same color. ==References== Category:Diseases and disorders of the eye Category:Genetic disorders Category:Tests
