From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Pornography
File:Porn Set 5.jpg '''Pornography''', or '''porn''', is the name for Story, Picture and Film featuring Sexual intercourse for the purpose of Sexual arousal people sexually, either to help them Masturbation, or to prepare them for sex with a partner. When the purpose of these works is not arousal, but for example education, or art, these works are not called pornographic. People instead speak about Eroticism, William J. Gehrke, ''The Tech'', December 10, 1996, Jug Suraiya, ''The Times of India'', August 15, 2004. In most countries,showing Nudity people is not called "pornography" unless the people are doing something sexual; even so, material that counts as pornographic may still be legal. When people consider photographs or Movie to harm or to disrespect the people depicted or the viewers, or to violate the community's moral or Religion standards, they condemn the material as "obscene." Most countries have laws against obscenity. One type of pornography against the law in most countries is child pornography. Pornography can be made in different media. Some ways include Photograph, Drawing, Painting, Animation, and Movie. Live shows (like sex shows or striptease) are usually not considered pornography. Pornography is made to Entertainment adults. Many people are involved in the industry of making, selling, or showing pornography. People shown in pornographic movies are called Pornographic actor, and when they attain the popularity to appear in many films, they are called "porn stars." == Definition == File:Pompeii - Casa del Centenario - Cubiculum - detail.jpg, 1st century AD.]] The word "pornography" comes from the Greek language words meaning "prostitution" and "writing". The word was first used for stories about sex, but is now also used for photographs, paintings, illustrations, cartoons, and movies that depict sex to arouse people to sexual activity. It is also called "porn" or "porno" for short. The word ''pornography'' is made of two ancient Greek words: () "fornicators", and () "writing, recording, or description". No date is known for the first use of the term ''pornography'', the earliest attested, most related word found is () i.e. "someone writing about harlots" in the 3rd century CE work ''Deipnosophists'' by Athenaeus. The oldest published reference to the word ''pornography'' as in 'new pornographie,' is dated back to 1638 and is credited to Nathaniel Butter in a history of the Fleet newspaper industry. The modern word ''pornography'' entered the English language as the more familiar word in 1842 via French "," from Greek "". === What is ''not'' pornography === File:William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1825-1905) - Seated Nude (1884).jpg, Seated Nude, 1880]] There are different ideas about what is and what is not pornography. Diana Russell, a psychologist, says that there is a difference between pornography and Eroticism. The word "erotica" is often used for pictures, movies or stories that focus on the beauty of sexuality. There is not often a clear difference between "erotica" and "pornography." The dispute over what is or is not pornography can even go to the Court. Some people believe that anything that shows a Nudity is a type of pornography. The laws of the United States and many other countries do not support this. There can be all sorts of reasons for showing a naked or partly undressed body. Some of these reasons include art work or a Medical science diagram. == Types of pornography == File:AN Penny Flame 1.jpg There are different kinds of pornography. The term "soft porn" is sometimes used for pictures that show people who may or may not be naked, but who are posed in a sexy manner. Pictures of women like this are sometimes called "cheesecake," and pictures of men are called "beefcake." Pornographic pictures or movies which show people having sex are sometimes called "hard porn." == The business of pornography == Businesses have been making pornography for many years. Until the 1970s, businesses making pornography were small since there were many laws against it. In the 1970s, pornographic magazines such as ''Penthouse'' became a huge and successful business. Pornographic movies also become popular at this time. In the 1980s, the creation of the video cassette recorder caused a rise in the pornography business. A number of companies began making pornographic videotapes in the United States. In the 1990s, as more people began using the internet, businesses began selling pornographic pictures on the Internet. In the 2000s, the increased speed of computers allowed pornography companies to sell porn videos over the Internet. The pornography brand Mitchell Gaffney was the first website that contained such items. Many different kinds of businesses make and sell pornography: Magazine such as Playboy and Hustler, movie companies such as Vivid Video, and website, such as Pornhub, that make and sell porn. Since "pornography" is a word that many people consider being the name for something that is morally wrong or ugly, businesses do not say that they are in "the business of pornography," but rather in the "adult entertainment" business. == Pornography and the law == In the nations of Western Europe and the United States, the law permits people who have reached the legal age of Adult (the age of majority) to own, buy, sell, make, or participate in pornography. Laws about the public display of pornographic materials for sale may vary in the West: in The Netherlands the very Liberalism laws allow stores that sell pornography to display books, magazines, photographs, and the covers of videos openly, but in Canada and the United States the laws require that such stores keep pornographic material out of the sight of children. In some parts of Asia, such as Indonesia, Iran and Pakistan, making or owning pornography is a crime. In the law of most countries, those people who have not reached the age of majority, or minors, may not buy, let alone sell, pornography of any sort. More importantly, there are laws against showing minors naked in photographs or films meant to arouse others sexually or showing them engaged in sexual acts. Such material is called "child pornography," and is considered not just illegal, but a serious crime. The laws against child pornography, also called "child porn", are meant to protect children against people who "use" or "Exploitation" them. The laws also require those who make pornographic photos or films to keep records to prove that their models, actors, and actresses are over the age of legal majority. == Criticism of pornography == Since the 1970s, many women's groups and feminist writers have criticized pornography, especially hardcore pornography, arguing that such pornography degrades and humiliates women. Some psychology who have talked with many people in jail for violent sex crimes believe that pornographic depictions of violent sex often make people less caring about other people's feelings, which might make them more likely to commit rape and other sex crimes. Many pedophiles, who sexually assault children, also have collections of child pornography. Religion people believe that, because it depicts the sexual act without any relation to love and marriage, pornography is unholy. Most parents do not wish their children to see pornography because they believe that it will make them less capable of romantic love. Special computer Software can be installed on computers to block access to pornographic websites, or websites otherwise objectionable. In the novel ''Nineteen Eighty-Four'' by George Orwell, pornography is described as a tool that is secretly pushed by some Tyranny, who believe that the use of pornography makes the :wikt:public less likely to care about Injustice, let alone initiate Rebellion. == Other problems with pornography == Even though many countries have laws against child pornography, enforcement has become a problem because new computer technologies allow pornographers to make an adult in a photograph look like an adolescent, or in making a film can use actors and actresses who, although they have passed the age of majority, still look much younger. In addition, organized crime makes money from Human trafficking; they force girls and women into prostitution, and sometimes force them to make pornography. == References == Category:Pornography Category:Obscenity
