From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Torah
File:Torah (The S.S. Teacher's Edition-The Holy Bible - Plate X).jpg '''Torah''' () is a Hebrew language word that means "instructions". When most people say the word Torah they either mean the whole Jewish Bible (the Tanakh), the first five books of the Bible, or all of the Jewish teaching in general. These five books are the beginning of both the Jewish and Christian bibles. They are # Genesis (), # Exodus (), # Leviticus (), # Book of Numbers () and # Deuteronomy (). Other names for this set of books are the "Five Books of Moses," or "Pentateuch". Each of the books in the Torah is separated into parts called "Parshiyot." ''Parsha'' is a Hebrew word meaning "portion." Every Shabbat one ''parsha'' is read in the synagogue, but sometimes two are read. This is so that all the ''parshiyot'' are finished every year, on the Jewish holiday of Simchat Torah. It is also known as the '''Five Book of Moses''' because Moses received these five books from God. The "Tawrat" () is the Arabic name for the Torah within its context as an Islamic holy book believed by Muslims to be given by God (Allah) to prophets and messengers amongst the Children of Israel, and often refers to the entire Hebrew Bible.Isabel Lang ''Intertextualität als hermeneutischer Zugang zur Auslegung des Korans: Eine Betrachtung am Beispiel der Verwendung von Israiliyyat in der Rezeption der Davidserzählung in Sure 38: 21-25'' Logos Verlag Berlin GmbH, 31.12.2015 p. 98 (German) It is mentioned many times in the Qur'an. == Pentateuch == Pentateuch means the first five books of the Bible. These books are Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Book of Numbers, and Deuteronomy. The word ''Pentateuch'' comes from two Ancient Greek language words that mean "five books" or "five scroll" According to tradition, the books were written by the Israelite leader, Moses. The Pentateuch is often called the Five Books of Moses or the Torah. The Pentateuch tells the story from the Creation myth of the world to the death of Moses and the preparation of the Israelite's to enter the land of Canaan. The story is told in three parts. The first part (Genesis 1-11) is about the Creation and the beginning of human beings on earth. The second part (Genesis 12-50) are the stories of the wikt:ancestor of the Israelites, mainly Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph (Hebrew Bible). The third part, beginning with the book of Exodus, describes how the Israelite's left Ancient Egypt and the early history of the people of Israel as a nation. It also has many laws about how the Israelite's must build their society. Deuteronomy is mostly Moses's final speech to his people and a summary of the Pentateuch. ==References== == Other websites == * * Category:Hebrew Bible
