From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Gospel
File:P52 recto.jpg '''Gospel''' originally meant the Christian message ("the gospel"), but in the 2nd century it came to be used also for the books in which the message was set out. The word gospel came from the Old English word “gōdspel”, which literally means “good news”, since it narrates Jesus Christ's life and teaching to invite anyone to believe that he was born to Salvation (Christianity) the world from sin and make humans truly know God as a Father. It includes the Substitutionary atonement and Resurrection of Jesus of Jesus. The Gospel was originally Oral tradition, not Writing. Eventually gospel came to mean an ancient book about Jesus, especially one of the four books collected by the Church in the Bible. These books are the first part of the New Testament of the Bible, and are put in a group of this order: the Gospel of Matthew, the Gospel of Mark, the Gospel of Luke and the Gospel of John. "Injil" (Arabic: إنجيل) is the Arabic name for the Gospel of Jesus (Isa). The Injil is mentioned many times in the Qur'an. In Islam, Jesus is believed to be the second-to-last prophet and messenger of God (Allah) and the Messiah. Muslims believe that God revealed the Injil to Jesus, while also declaring the truth of the previous revelations: the Tawrat (the Torah) and the Zabur (the Psalms). == The Essence of the Gospel as the Good News == “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. (John 3:16)Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you—unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures, (1 Corinthians 15:1-4) Passages are from the English Standard Version (ESV) of the Holy Bible. See also: Isaiah 53, Titus 2-3, Galatians 3 ==Related pages== *Gospel music ==References== == Other websites == Category:Christian theology Category:Gospels
