From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Prostate
The '''prostate''' is a gland of the male body that adds part of the fluid to semen and acts as the valve between semen and urine. It surrounds the urethra just below the urinary bladder and squeezes the urinary tract shut. The prostate is a valve that is almost always on. It works by squeezing tight around the urinary tract to close the path for urine to escape into the penile urethra, which is a good thing. The penile urethra has no valve to stop fluids from leaking out, so the prostate has to control the flow of urine and semen. A healthy human prostate is slightly larger than a walnut. The prostate leaks semen, Pre-ejaculate, ejaculate, and seminal fluid from ducts into the penile urethra for the vagina. Semen wikt:Consists of sperm and seminal fluid. Prejaculate is not urine, but its own wikt:Distinct fluid. In the past it probably was called phlegm (one of the four humors). Females do not have prostates. They have a version of the prostate which does the same thing (the homologous version of a prostate) called the clitoris. The Skene's gland (women reproductive system) also secretes mucus. == Conditions == Prostate issues can cause urinary wikt:incontinence and impotence (not being able to ejaculate, or sometimes get an erection, and lower sex drive). It might cause testosterone levels to decrease, which affects the reproductive system. In addition to impotence it may cause apathy. Conditions are sometimes common. Age-related conditions involving the prostate occur with age naturally including smaller prostate size. This includes cancer and it is important for all men to have their prostate checked at a certain age. Conditions caused by having the prostate shrink involve the common urinary problems. Prostate issues can happen with surgery including the positive outcomes. These problems are caused by completely removing the prostate, which is sometimes medically required. ==Cancer== Prostate cancer is one of the most common cancers affecting elderly men in developed (also known as first world) countries and a major cause of death. Regular rectal exams are recommended for older men to detect prostate cancer early. Prostate cyst is very common in men. With age, the risk increases significantly. This means that they are more likely to develop the disease as they get older. A cyst is a kind of cavity formed from the tissue of the prostate itself. These cysts may wikt:accumulate to where they become very full. ==G-spot== The prostate is often referred to as the male G-spot, which is a spot inside the female vagina that causes intense pleasure when it is stimulated. The prostate can be massaged by using a finger or during anal sex. Some males are able to orgasm with prostate stimulation alone. == Related pages == * G-spot * Orgasm == Other websites == * [http://www.soc.ucsb.edu/sexinfo/?article=19Rv University of California, Santa Barbara's SexInfo] This article includes general information on the prostate, related medical conditions, and information on stimulating the prostate for sexual pleasure. Category:Anatomy of the male reproductive system Category:Glands
