From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Medical diagnosis
File:PikiWiki Israel 15790 Subtle diagnosis.jpg A '''diagnosis''' (ancient Greek: δια-γνωστικος) is when a Physician finds out what makes someone Disease. ==Overview== Sometimes, doctors can diagnose a sickness by asking the patient Question and looking at the patient's body. Sometimes, doctors do ''tests''. Tests can mean taking a small bit of blood, urine or Tissue (biology) which is sent to a hospital laboratory where it is tested. X-ray are another form of test.Tests are ways to see how the body is working. When a diagnosis has been made, the doctor may recommend Treatment. ==Process== Diagnosis starts with the patient's examination in a medical institution or during a call to the Physician at the patient's place of residence. Diagnosis of the disease begins with the collection of medical history. After collecting the anamnesis, the doctor examines the patient, where the doctor performs percussion and auscultation of the patient, wikt:palpation of the disease, Measurement the patient's blood pressure, heart rate and respiration rate, which measures the patient's body temperature. ===Laboratory examinations=== Laboratory examination methods feature general clinical tests, including a blood test, urine test and, stool test. Laboratory methods of examination also include Biochemistry methods of examination, during which the levels of glucose, urea, bilirubin, creatinine, liver enzymes, blood Lipid are determined; coagulogram, which Analysis the indicators of Thrombus, blood hormone tests; determination of tumor markers; tests of blood and Tissue (biology) for Infection; Allergy, Toxicology, Cytology and Parasitology examinations. Instrumental examination methods include X-ray, Endoscopy, ultrasound, methods of recording the electrical activity of Organ (anatomy), including but not limited to Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Electroencephalography (EEG), and a number of other examination methods. To diagnose Disorder of some systems and organs, methods of recording the Synapse of organs are used, particularly ECG and EEG. ==References== Category:Biology Category:Physics Category:Science Category:Medicine Category:Chemistry Category:Nuclear physics Category:Observation
