From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Ramones
File:Ramones Logo Greyscales.png '''Ramones''' were an United States punk rock band who formed in New York City in 1974 and broke up in 1996. All the members of the group had stage names which replaced their real last names with "Ramone." They were one of the first punk bands. Some others were The Clash, The Sex Pistols, and Misfits. Three of the four founding members of the Ramones died within eight years of the band breaking up. The original lineup was made up of Joey on drums, Johnny on guitar and Dee Dee on bass and vocals. Tommy was their manager. Then Dee Dee said he was unable to sing while playing bass, so Tommy got Joey to sing and then played drums himself, leaving Dee Dee to backup sing. Later, Tommy left the band and was replaced on drums by a new member, Marky. Eventually Marky was fired and then replaced by another drummer, Richie. After that, Dee Dee left the band to produce his own rap album. C.J. joined the band as their new bassist. Their first album "Ramones" is now a classic of early punk rock. The songs are short, the melodies simple and the text is often made up of 2 or three phrases only. Their live concerts were legendary, extremely loud and very short. They played song after song, only interrupted by Dee Dee's (and later, C.J.'s) shouts of "one, two, three, four!". The Ramones never had big commercial success. Among their best-known songs today are "Blitzkrieg Bop" and "I Wanna Be Sedated." Now they are seen as one of the most important punk rock bands. Several rock bands, including Nirvana (band) and Green Day were influenced by the Ramones. The Ramones had their first gigs at the club CBGB in New York. The letters "CBGB" stand for '''C'''ountry, '''B'''lue'''G'''rass, '''B'''lues. The club was opened in 1973 by Hilly Kristal. CBGB, soon afterward, became a place where new wave and punk rock bands played. These included Patti Smith Group, Blondie, Talking Heads and many others. From the early 1980s onward, CBGB was known for hardcore punk. == Gallery == File:Ramones Clockwise.jpg|'''Ramones members.''' Top: Joey Ramone, Johnny Ramone, Dee Dee Ramone, Tommy Ramone Bottom: Marky Ramone, Richie Ramone, Elvis Ramone, C.J. Ramone File:RamonesCBGB.jpg|CBGB in New York City. File:Joeyramone.jpg|Joey Ramone ca 1980. File:Johnny Ramone 1983 c.jpg|Johnny Ramone 1983. File:Ramones Toronto 1976.jpg|Ramones i Toronto 1976. File:Johnny-Ramone 1977.jpg|Johnny Ramone 1977. Category:1970s American music groups Category:1974 establishments in the United States Category:1980s American music groups Category:1990s American music groups Category:1996 disestablishments in the United States Category:American punk bands Category:Musical groups disestablished in 1996 Category:Musical groups established in 1974 Category:Musical groups from New York City Category:1970s establishments in New York (state) Category:1990s disestablishments in New York (state)
