From:
To:
Date:
Subject: Firefighter
File:Scenes from a 2nd Alarm Fire in SW DC - 05-24-2020 14.jpg in 2020]] File:Lincoln Fire & Rescue Department Engine No. 2 (with firefighters), Lincoln, Nebraska, USA.jpg]] '''Firefighters''' are people who help put out fires. They can also help with many other emergencies. Firefighters use different types of equipment to deal with each type of emergency they are called to. They work for the fire service, which is one of the three main emergency services. Firefighters are based in and respond to emergency situations from a fire station (also known as a fire house or fire hall). Firefighters deal with many different emergencies. When somebody needs their help, the firefighters will drive to the location of the emergency on a vehicle called a fire engine (also known as a fire truck). Fire engines have lots of equipment to deal with different emergency situations. They have water Hose, water pumps, ventilation, fans and many other items that help them put out fires. Fire engines also carry some equipment for medical incidents, Hazardous materials incidents, and they have equipment that can help firefighters rescue people. To help with medical emergencies, fire engines have cardiac monitors, Defibrillator, intubation and airway management supplies, emergency Medication and other medical items on board. To help the firefighters rescue people, fire engines have many rescue tools such as spreaders, cutters and rams. Their rescue equipment also includes air bags, electric and battery powered breaching, special rescue saws, torches, ropes, and other specialized rescue tools and equipment on board. In response to hazardous material incidents, fire engines have protection equipment to keep the firefighters safe from the hazards. It also carries non sparking tools, generators and other hazardous material tools and equipment on board. Modern fire engines have flashing emergency lights, loud sirens and horns. This helps to warn people that a fire engine is coming down the road to a emergency. Radios, computers and other devices are used by firefighters on fire engines to talk with their dispatcher and other emergency service vehicles, including mutual aid, Fire and Rescue units, police units and Emergency Medical Services units. Firefighters wear heavy clothing to protect them from the heat of a fire. This is called bunker gear or turnout gear. They wear equipment to help them breathe in areas that are filled with smoke. They may also wear a mask to protect themselves from breathing in smoke and/or hot air. This helps them to protect themselves and those that they rescue. ==Fire departments== The name of the agency that firefighters work for can be different in each country. Common names include a fire department, fire service, fire and rescue service or fire brigade. Fire departments are usually Agency that are funded by Tax. Some place, such as Airport have their own firefighters. At some fire departments, the firefighters work full-time. They stay at the fire station and wait to be called out to an emergency. They work during both the daytime and at night. Village and small Town normally have part-time firefighters. They have other jobs outside of the fire service. These firefighters will drive from their home or workplace to the fire station when their help is needed. They may be Volunteering, or they may be paid for doing this job. In the United Kingdom, these paid firemen are known as "retained firefighters''"''. == References == Category:Occupations Category:Firefighting
